Announcer: FROM THE NINE
NETWORK OF PUBLIC MEDIA IN
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI, THIS IS THE
2018 U.S. SENATE DEBATE, HOSTED
BY JUDY WOODRUFF OF THE PBS NEWS
HOUR.
[ APPLAUSE ]
Judy: GOOD EVENING.
I AM JUDY WOODRUFF.
WELCOME TO THIS, THE PBS NEWS
HOUR AND WELCOME TO THIS DEBATE
THIS ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT
SENATE RACES IN THE COUNTRY THIS
YEAR HERE IN THE STATE OF
MISSOURI.
WE ARE LIVE AT THE NINE NETWORK
STUDIOS IN ST. LOUIS AND LENS
FIRST MEET THE CANDIDATES.
THEY ARE THE INCUMBENT,
DEMOCRATIC SENATOR CLAIRE
[ APPLAUSE ]
AND THE REPUBLICAN, STATE
ATTORNEY GENERAL JOSH HAWLEY.
[ APPLAUSE ]
WE DID INVITE TO THIS FORUM
CANDIDATES WHO DREW AT LEAST 10%
SUPPORT IN THE POLLS.
WE WANT TO TELL YOU THAT THE
INDEPENDENT, GREEN PARTY, AND
THE LIBERTARIAN CANDIDATES DID
NOT REACH THAT THRESHOLD.
THE QUESTIONS TONIGHT WILL COME
FROM MISSOURI VOTERS HERE IN OUR
LIVE AUDIENCE IN ST. LOUIS, AS
WELL AS IN SOCIAL MEDIA AND FROM
JOURNALISTS.
JOINING ME ARE JO MANNIES, SHE
IS A POLITICAL REPORTER FOR
ST. LOUIS PUBLIC RADIO, AND MIKE
BUSH, AUTHOR, ANCHOR AND
REPORTER AT 5 ON YOUR SIDE.
WE ARE SO GLAD TO HAVE BOTH OF
YOU HERE WITH US AS WELL.
THE DEBATE FORMAT IS SIMPLE,
EACH CANDIDATE WILL HAVE UP TO
TWO MINUTES TO RESPOND TO EACH
QUESTION AND THERE MAY BE
FOLLOWUP.
DO YOU AGREE, HERE'S THE
QUESTION, DO YOU AGREE REQUEST
LEADER McCONNELL THAT SOCIAL
SECURITY AND MEDICARE ARE THE
LEADING DRIVERS OF THE DEFICIT
AND THAT THEY HAVE TO BE
REFORMED, CUT BACK IN SOME WAY
IN ORDER TO GET THE DEFICIT
UNDER CONTROL?
Hawley: JUDY, THANKS VERY
MUCH FOR THAT QUESTION AND LET
ME SAY THANK YOU TO KSDK AND
THEIR PARTNERS FOR HAVING US
TONIGHT.
I WANT TO FIRST INTRODUCE A
SPECIAL GUEST IN THE AUDIENCE
WITH ME, MY WIFE ERIN IS WITH ME
TONIGHT.
THANK YOU, SWEETHEART.
I WANT TO SAY TO MY TWO LITTLE
BOYS AT HOME, THEY'RE SUPPOSED
TO BE IN BED, BUT I'M KIND OF
GUESSING THAT THEY ARE --
THEY'RE WITH GRANDMA AND
GRANDPA, SO I'M GUESSING THEY'RE
UP AND PROBABLY WATCHING, SO I
JUST WANT TO SAY, BOYS, WE SURE
DO LOVE YOU POP TO YOUR
QUESTION, JUDY, I DO NOT SUPPORT
CUTTING SOCIAL SECURITY OR
MEDICARE.
I DON'T SUPPORT ANY CHANGES TO
THOSE PROGRAMS FOR ANYONE WHO IS
CURRENTLY REFERRING BENEFITS OR
WHO IS GOING TO BE RECEIVING
BENEFITS ANYTIME IN THE NEAR
FUTURE.
I THINK IT IS VITAL THAT WE
PROTECT THESE PROGRAMS THAT
AMERICANS HAVE PAID INTO WITH
THEIR HARD-EARNED CASH.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I
DISAGREE WITH SENATOR McCASKILL
ABOUT IS SHE VOTED TO CUT
$716 BILLION FROM MEDICARE IN
ORDER TO PAY FOR OBAMACARE.
I THINK THAT WAS WRONG.
I THINK THOSE CUTS OUGHT TO BE
RESTORED AND IF WE WANT TO TALK
ABOUT THE DEFICIT AND THE
DRIVERS OF DEFT SPENDING, I
WOULD START WITH OBAMACARE.
GOING TO COST OVER 2 TRILLION
MORE OVER THE NEXT DECADE.
IT HAS PROVEN TO BE OUTRAGEOUSLY
EXPENSIVE FOR FEDERAL TAXPAYERS,
BUT WORSE THAN THAT, IT HAS
PROVEN TO BE OUTRAGEOUSLY
EXPENSIVE FOR THE FAMILIES OF
MISSOURI.
HEALTHCARE COSTS IN THIS STATE
ARE UP 145%, PREMIUMS ARE, SINCE
2013.
THAT'S BEFORE -- THAT'S BETWEEN
2013 AND 2017, BY THE WAY.
I'VE HAD FAMILY AFTER FAMILY --
CONDITION AND ALSO YOUNG
PEOPLE -- REVENUES ARE DOWN AND
WAGES ARE STAGNANT.
IN FACT, WAGES ARE 1.8% LOWER IN
THIS COUNTRY THAN THEY WERE A
YEAR AGO.
THAT IS ALSO ONE OF OUR BIG
PROBLEMS.
WE SHOULD NOT BE ADDING TO THE
DEFICIT IN A STRONG ECONOMY LIKE
WE ARE RIGHT NOW.
IT IS THE TAX CUTS.
IT'S SO INTERESTING THAT JOSH
MENTIONED THE 716 BILLION.
THAT WAS NOT A CUT TO MEDICARE
IN ACA, THAT WAS A CUT TO THE
PROFITS OF THE HEALTH INSURANCE
COMPANIES.
THAT WAS GIVING A HAIRCUT TO THE
GUARANTEED PROFITS OF THE HEALTH
INSURANCE COMPANIES AND THE
MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PROGRAM, AND
WHAT DID WE DO WITH THAT
$716 BILLION?
WE FILLED THE DONUT HOLE FOR
MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION PROGRAM
PART D SO THAT SENIORS IN
MISSOURI CAN NOW ENJOY MORE
PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFITS WHICH
THEY DESPERATELY NEED RIGHT NOW.
THE PERSON WHO'S GOING TO CUT
MEDICARE IS IN FACT JOSH HAWLEY.
IN HIS LAWSUIT, IF IT IS
SUCCESSFUL!$!!!!!!!!!!!!
SUCCESSFUL, THAT BENEFIT GOES
AWAY AND GUESS WHO GETS A PAY
DAY?
THE HEALTH INSURANCE COMPANIES
OF $715 BILLION.
THE PERSON WHO IS ACTUALLY USING
TAX DOLLARS TO GO TO COURT TO
NOT ONLY GET RID OF EVERY
CONSUMER PROTECTION IN THE LAW
THAT MISSOURIANS APPRECIATE, BUT
ALSO REMOVING FREE PREVENTION
PROGRAMS IN MEDICARE AND
REMOVING THE BENEFIT FOR THE
DONUT HOLE IN MEDICARE PART D.
AND THE 145% HE CITES
CONSTANTLY, THAT IS THE COST ON
THE EXCHANGES FOR PEOPLE WHO
DON'T QUALIFY FOR SUBSIDIES.
IT IS TOO HIGH, BUT IT'S ONLY 5%
OF MISSOURI.
WE NEED TO FIX THE PROBLEMS IN
OBAMACARE, NOT THROW IT OUT, AND
HIS LAWSUIT IS SO RECKLESS
BECAUSE THERE'S NO BACKUP HERE.
THERE'S NO BACKUP PLAN FOR
PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS IF HE'S
SUCCESSFUL.
IF HE BELIEVES WE SHOULD PROTECT
PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS --
TWO MINUTES --
HE SHOULD ASK TOMORROW FOR
THE CASE TO BE DISMISSED.
Judy: MIKE BUSH.
Mike: MR. HAWLEY, JUST PIGGY!$!!!!
PIGGYBACKING OFF WHAT THE
SENATOR SAID, LAST FALL THE
TREASURY SECRETARY SAID THE TAX
CUT WOULD PAY ITSELF AND PAY
DOWN DEBT.
A YEAR LATER, AS JUDY MENTIONED,
THE DEFICIT IS UP, CORPORATE TAX
PAYMENTS ARE DOWN AND ALL THIS
WITH A STRONG ECONOMY.
IF YOU'RE TRYING TO LOWER THE
DEBT, SHOULDN'T THE TAX CUTS BE
ON THE TABLE?
Hawley: I'M NOT IN FAVOR OF
RAISING TAXES AND I THINK THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY IS VERY CLEAR
ABOUT WHAT THEY WANT TO DO IF
THEY REGAIN POWER.
THIS SEAT HERE IN MISSOURI, THIS
RACE HERE IN MISSOURI IS GOING
TO DECIDE WHICH PARTY CONTROLS
THE SENATE AND IT'S A BIG CHOICE
BETWEEN THE PARTY LINE
LIBERALISM OF SENATOR McCASKILL
AND WHAT YOU VOTED FOR IN 2016
AND THOSE TWO ARE VERY DIFFERENT
THINGS.
THE PEOPLE OF THIS STATE VOTED
TO GET TAXES DOWN ON WORKING
FAEMTION AND THE MIDDLE CLASS.
SENATOR McCASKILL HAD A CHANCE
TO VOTE FOR A MIDDLE CLASS TAX
CUT.
SHE VOTED NO AND IN FACT SHE'S
VOTED TO RAISE TAXES OR FEES 200
TIMES WHILE SHE HAS BEEN IN THE
UNITED STATES SENATE.
THAT IS NOT WHAT THE FAMILIES OF
OUR STATE NEED, SO IN ORDER TO
GET THE DEFICIT DOWN -- BY THE
WAY, I WOULD POINT OUT THAT THE
DEBT AND DEFICIT EXPLODED UNDER
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND NOW I NOTICE
THE DEMOCRATS SAY THAT NOW THAT
THERE'S BEEN A MIDDLE CLASS TAX
CUT, NOW SUDDENLY THEY HAVE A
PROBLEM WITH IT, BUT I WOULD SAY
THIS.
WE'VE GOT TO GET SPENDING UNDER
CONTROL AND I WOULD START WITH
OBAMACARE.
IT HAS BEEN A GIVEAWAY TO BIG
INSURANCE AND BIG PHARMA.
BIG INSURANCE AND BIG PHARMA
TOGETHER WROTE OBAMACARE.
THE INSURANCE COMPANIES ARE
GETTING RECORD PROFITS.
THEY'RE DOING GREAT AND I'M
SURPRISED TO HEAR SENATOR
McCASKILL SAY THAT SHE'S FINE
WITH THE PRICE INCREASES IN THIS
STATE.
THE AVERAGE PRICE INCREASE ON
THE EXCHANGE NOW UP TO ALMOST
$500 A MONTH IN PREMIUMS.
MAYBE SHE CAN AFFORD THAT.
MOST MISSOURI FAMILIES CANNOT.
MISSOURI FAMILY AFTER MISSOURI
FAMILY COMES TO ME AND SAYS THEY
HAVE DESPERATE FOR HELP.
THE DESERVE IT.
Judy: MR. HAWLEY, VERY
QUICKLY TO GET BACK TO THE
ORIGINAL QUESTION.
ARE YOU SAYING THAT MEDICARE AND
SOCIAL SECURITY DON'T NEED IN
ANY WAY TO BE REINED IN.
Hawley: I WOULD IN THE
SUPPORT CUTS TO MEDICARE AND --
Judy: AND THEY ARE NOT
DRIVERS TO THIS DEFICIT.
Hawley: I CERTAINLY WOULD NOT
TOUCH THEM.
I UNDERSTAND THERE'S QUITE A BIT
OF SPENDING WITH THEM, BUT THESE
ARE PROMISES MADE AND PROMISES
HAVE TO BE KEPT.
Judy: THE NEXT QUESTION GOES
TO SENATOR McCASKILL.
McCaskill: DO I GET -- I JUST
WANT TO MAKE SURE WHAT THE RULES
ARE.
DO WE BOTH ANSWER QUESTIONS OR
JUST ONE OF US.
Judy: IF THERE'S SOMETHING
THAT MR. HAWLEY SAID YOU WANT TO
RESPOND TO, WE'RE GIVING YOU
TIME TO DO SO.
McCaskill: I DIDN'T GET A
CHANCE TO ANSWER MIKE BUSH'S
QUESTION.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
REMEMBER THAT WE WERE IN A
DRAMATIC RECESSION AFTER THE
BUSH ADMINISTRATION, LOSING
$800,000 JOBS A MONTH AND, OF
COURSE, WE HAD TO GO TO
EXTRAORDINARY MEASURES TO PULL
OURSELVES OUT OF THE RECESSION
AND THE DEFICIT DID GET TOO
HIGH.
AND THE ENTIRE TIME, THE OTHER
PARTY WAS SCREAMING ABOUT THE
DEBT AND DEFICIT.
IT GOT TO OVER A TRILLION
DOLLARS, BUT GUESS WHAT?
THEN WE WENT TO WORK AND WE CUT
IT IN HALF.
AND NOW WE'RE HER NOT IN THE
MIDDLE OF -- HERE WE ARE NOT IN
THE MIDDLE OF A RECESSION AND
IT'S GOING BACK UP AGAIN.
IN FACT, THE INCREASE TO THE
DEBT, 62 BILLION OF IT IS JUST
INTEREST.
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY LOVES TO
TALK ABOUT DEBT AND DEFICIT
UNTIL THEY'RE IN CHARGE, AND
THEN IT'S CRICKETS.
IT'S ABSOLUTELY CRICKETS.
YES, WE'VE GOT TO LOOK AT ALL OF
IT.
NO CUTS TO SOCIAL SECURITY NO,
CUTS TO MEDICARE.
AS I SAID, JOSH HAWLEY IS
PROPOSING CUTS TO MEDICARE BY
HIS LAWSUIT.
Hawley: THAT'S NOT -- I JUST
HAVE TO RESPOND TO THAT BECAUSE
IT'S FLATLY FALSE.
ONLY ONE PERSON ON THIS STAGE
HAS VOTED TO CUT MEDICARE
SPENDING AND IT'S SENATOR
McCASKILL.
YOU CAN GO LOOK IT UP.
SHE CAN CHARACTERIZE IT AND PUT
AS MUCH LIPSTICK ON IT AN IS SHE
WANTS, BUT THE TRUTH IS, SHE
VOTED TO CUT $716 BILLION FROM
MEDICARE TO PAY FOR OBAMACARE.
I CAN DEBATE THE MERITS OF IT,
BUT I DON'T SUPPORT THE CUTS.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR ON THAT.
Judy: THE NEXT QUESTION GOES
TO SENATOR McCASKILL.
MOST OF THE QUESTIONS TONIGHT
ARE GOING TO BE ON DOMESTIC
POLICY, BUT AS UNITED SENATOR,
YOU HAVE OVERVITE OVER FOREIGN
POLICY AS WELL.
THIS IS A QUESTION ABOUT U.S.
RELATIONS WITH SAUDI ARABIA.
AFTER THE DISAPPEARANCE OF THE
SAUDI JOURNALIST JAMAL
KHASHOGGI, ALL THE ATTENTION HAS
BEEN FOCUSED ON THE SAUDI
GOVERNMENT AND THE CROWN PRINCE.
PACED ON WHAT YOU KNOW, DO YOU
BELIEVE THAT HE WAS COMPLICIT IN
WHAT APPEARS TO BE A HORRIFIC
MURDER AND IF SO, WHAT SPECIFIC
ACTION SHOULD THE U.S. TAKE?
SHOULD IT BE A CUTBACK IN
MILITARY AID, SOME SORT OF
ECONOMIC SANCTION OR SOME OTHER
STEP, OR IS THE ALLIANCE TOO
IMPORTANT TO TAMPER WITH?
McCaskill: I BELIEVE IF IT IS
SHOWN THAT THE PRINCE OF SAUDI
ARABIA WAS INVOLVED IN ORDERING
THE MURDER OF THIS JOURNALIST IN
A BRUTAL FASHION, AS IS BEING
REPORTED IN TURKISH PRESS, THEN
EVERYTHING HAS TO BE ON THE
TABLE.
YOU KNOW, WE ARE A BEACON TO THE
WORLD WHEN IT COMES TO OUR
DEMOCRACY AND OUR VALUES.
WE HAVE A ROLE IN THE WORLD.
I DO NOT THINK WE CAN ABANDON
OUR PLACE ON ON TOP OF THE HILL
TELLING THE REST THE WORLD THAT
WE APPRECIATE FREEDOM OF THE
PRESS AND WE BELIEVE IN HUMAN
RIGHTS AND DEMOCRACY, AND THEN
LOOK THE OTHER WAY BECAUSE IT
MIGHT CAUSE PROBLEMS IN TERMS OF
SOME KIND OF FINANCIAL
TRANSACTIONS.
SO I BELIEVE THERE MUST BE -- I
THINK THE MAGNITSKY SANCTIONS
WOULD BE APPROPRIATE, I THINK
OTHER SANCTIONS WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE, BUT THIS IS A VERY
SERIOUS SITUATION AND I HOPE
WE'RE NOT GOING TO ALLOW THE
SAUDI GOVERNMENT TO WHITE WASH
THIS IF IN FACT THE FACTS ARE
PROVEN.
THEY'RE NOT EVEN BRIEFING
CONGRESS RIGHT NOW, JUDY O WHAT
ACTUALLY THEY KNOW IN THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
WE'RE NOT -- WE'VE BEEN DENIED A
BOB CORKER HAS SAID THAT THEY
HAVE TOLD HIM NO, THEY WON'T
EVEN GIVE HIM A BRIEF.
OUR INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY, WE
HEAR, BELIEVES THERE'S
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE THAT
THIS WAS AN ORDERED HIT BY THE
SAUDI GOVERNMENT.
Judy: IN HAWLEY.
Hawley: I THINK WE NEED TO
GET THE FACTS AND I THINK
SECRETARY POMPEO HAS DEMANDED
THE FACTS FROM THE SAUDI
GOVERNMENT, HAS GIVEN THEM A
DEADLINE, WE WANT THE FACTS BY
THIS DATE.
WORKING WITH THE TURKISH
GOVERNMENT AS WELL TO GET
EVERYTHING THEY KNOW AND IF
INDEED THE SAUDI GOVERNMENT HAS
BEEN INVOLVED OR IN ANY WAY IN
THE DEATH OF THIS JOURNALIST,
THEN I THINK THAT ALL OPTIONS DO
NEED TO BE ON THE TABLE AND THAT
THE CONSEQUENCES NEED TO BE
SEVERE.
I THINK PRESIDENCY HAS PURSUED A
POLICY OF STRENGTH ABROAD, WHICH
I AGREE WITH, CONFRONTING THOSE
WHO HAVE ATTEMPTED TO HARM THIS
COUNTRY, CONFRONTING THOSE WHO
ATTEMPTED TO RIP OFF THIS
COUNTRY.
I THINK THAT'S THE RIGHT THING.
FOR TOO LONG WE HAD A POLICY OF
WEAKNESS AND APPEASEMENT ABROAD.
I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD GO BACK
TO THAT.
I KNOW A SENATOR McCASKILL'S
PARTY SUPPORTED A POLICY OF
WEAKNESS AND APPEASEMENT ABROAD
FOR YEARS.
BARACK OBAMA TALKED ABOUT
LEADING FROM BEHIND.
IF YOU LEAD FROM BEHIND, YOU GET
LEFT BEHIND.
THINK IT'S TIME WE HAD THIS
POLICY STRAIGHT.
Judy: BOTH OF YOU ARE SAYING
EVERYTHING IS ON THE TABLE, EVEN
IF IT MEANS UPSETTING U.S. ALLY
ISRAEL, WHICH IS VERY SUPPORTIVE
OF THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
POLICY APPROACH TO SAUDI ARABIA.
SENATOR McCASKILL?
McCaskill: I THINK THE
PROBLEM IS WE'VE GOT -- WE'RE
TRYING TO CHECK IRAN.
THAT IS THE COMPLICATED PART
HERE AND OBVIOUSLY THAT'S AT THE
TOP OF ISRAEL'S LIST IS THEY ARE
VERY CONCERNED THAT THERE IS A
UNITED FRONT AGAINST IRAN AND
MAYOR MISDEEDS IN A VERY --
THEIR MISDEEDS IN A VERY
DANGEROUS NEIGHBORHOOD, BUT
THERE ARE TIMES WE HAVE TO SAY
TO OUR ALLIES, WE CAN'T LOOK THE
OTHER WAY ON THIS.
I FIND IT INTERESTING THAT JOSH
WOULD SAY THAT I SOMEHOW SUPPORT
APPEASEMENT.
I DON'T THINK MY COLLEAGUES ON
THE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE
WOULD AGREE WITH HIM.
I GET CHEWED ON BY THE LEFT IN
MY PARTY FOR MY VIEW THAT THERE
IS PEACE TO STRENGTH AND MY
SUPPORT OF THE INCREASES TO THE
MILITARY BUDGET.
IT HAS BEEN A CONSISTENT RECORD
OF MINE AND YES, SOMETIMES IT
MEANS I SEPARATE FROM MY PARTY,
BUT THAT'S I THINK WHAT
MISSOURIANS DEMAND OF ME, THAT I
DON'T ALWAYS TAKE A PARTY LINE.
Judy: THE ISRAEL POINT.
Hawley: I THINK THAT'S AN
IMPORTANT ONE.
I'M NOT IN FAVOR OF DOING
ANYTHING THAT END DANGERS OUR
ALLY ISRAEL.
IN THIS CASE, WE HAVE TO BE
TOUGH WITH SAUDI ARABIA IF THEY
PARTICIPATED, BUT WHEN THE COMES
TO ISRAEL, SENATOR McCASKILL
VOTED -- OR WASN'T SUPPORTIVE OF
THE DISASTROUS IRAN DEAL.
YOU TALK ABOUT TURNING YOUR BACK
ON THE STATE OF ISRAEL.
SHE ALSO SUPPORTED MILITARY
CUTS, DRASTIC TO THE BONE CUTS
TO OUR MILITARY.
I'VE GOT A SISTER WHO'S A
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER IN THE
UNITED STATES NAVY, SHE'S TOLD
ME ABOUT THE EFFECT OF THOSE
CUTS ON TROOP MORALE AND
READINESS THAT SENATOR McCASKILL
HAS SUPPORTED.
SHE DID THAT BECAUSE IT WAS THE
PARTY LINE AND I THINK WE DON'T
NEED A PARTY LINE LIBERAL IN
WASHINGTON.
THAT'S MY CRITICISM.
Judy: SENATOR McCASKILL, YOU
WANT TO RESPOND OR WE HAVE
ANOTHER FOLLOW-UP?
McCaskill: JOSH'S CAMPAIGN
HAS A TORTURED RELATIONSHIP WITH
THE TRUTH.
IT'S JUST NOT TRUE.
THERE WERE CUTS THAT WERE AGREED
TO BY BOTH PARTIES AT A TIME
WHEN WE WERE TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT HOW TO CAP SPENDING WHEN
REPUBLICANS WERE WORRIED ABOUT
DEFICITS, BUT I HAVE VOTED -- I
JUST VOTED ALONG WITH PRESIDENT
TRUMP, AGREEING WITH PRESIDENT
TRUMP THAT WE NEEDED A BIG
INCREASE TO OUR MILITARY BUDGET.
Hawley: BUT SHE VOTED FOR THE
CUTS.
SHE DID VOTE FOR THE CUTS THAT
WERE DEVASTATING TO OUR
MILITARY.
Judy: WE'RE GOING TO TAKE A
QUESTION NOW FROM MISSOURI
VOTERS AND TO NINE NETWORK'S
RUTH EZELL.
I'M HERE WITH MARIA FROM
ARNOLD.
HER QUESTION IS TO ATTORNEY
GENERAL HAWLEY AND HER QUESTION
IS GUN VIOLENCE.
ON THIS THURSDAY EVENING A
YEAR AGO, I WAS IN THE E.R. OF A
ST. LOUIS PEDIATRIC HOSPITAL
WITH MY 9-YEAR-OLD SON WHEN A
CODE SILVER WAS ANNOUNCED.
THAT MEANS AN ACTIVE SHOOTER.
DURING THIS VERY HOUR, I WAS
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO
BARRICADE THE DOOR TO MY SON'S
ROOM AND HIDE HIM.
GUN VIOLENCE HAS AFFECTED MY
FAMILY, MY COMMUNITY, AND IS
PERVASIVE IN THIS COUNTRY.
I AM FRUSTRATED AND ANGRY WHEN I
SEE CALLS FOR COMMON SENSE LAWS
TO ADDRESS GUN VIOLENCE MET WITH
POWERFUL RESISTANCE FROM THE GUN
LOBBY FOLLOWED BY INACTION FROM
OUR ELECTED LEADERS.
IF ELECTED, WHAT WOULD YOU DO
ABOUT THIS EPIDEMIC.
Hawley: MARIA, FIRST OF ALL,
THANK YOU FOR YOUR QUESTION.
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE THIS
EVENING AND I'M SORRY TO HEAR
ABOUT THAT EXPERIENCE AND AS A
FATHER OF TWO LITTLE BOYS, I CAN
ONLY BE -- THANK YOU FOR YOUR
COURAGE.
YOU KNOW, LET ME JUST SAY, JUST
START THERE, THAT AS A FATHER OF
TWO YOUNG SONS, WHEN MY WIFE AND
I DROP OUR BOYS OFF AT SCHOOL OR
SEND THEM ANYWHERE, WE WANT THEM
TO BE SAFE.
YOU KNOW WHAT, THEY DESERVE TO
BE SAFE JUST LIKE YOUR SON
DESERVES TO BE SAFE AND YOU
DESERVE TO BE SAFE.
I THINK WE NEED TO DO EVERYTHING
TO KEEP FIREARMS OUT OF THE
HANDS OF CRIMINALS, FOLKS WHO
ARE DANGEROUS, THE MENTALLY ILL
AND INSTABLE.
HERE'S WHERE I WOULD START.
I THINK WE NEED TO FIX THE
NATIONAL BACKGROUND CHECK
SYSTEM.
WE HAVE A BACKGROUND CHECK
SYSTEM, A NATIONAL SYSTEM, BUT
IT DOESN'T WORK THAT WELL
BECAUSE THERE'S A GIANT LOOPHOLE
RIGHT THERE IN THE MIDDLE OF IT.
IT DOESN'T INCLUDE MENTAL HEALTH
RECORDS.
IT DOESN'T ALLOW FOLKS TO SEE
HAS THERE BEEN A MENTAL HEALTH
INCIDENT IN THIS PERSON'S PAST.
WE NEED TO FIX THAT BACKGROUND
CHECK SYSTEM SO FOLKS CAN SEE --
YOU LOOK AT MANY OF THE TERRIBLE
ATROCITIES COMMITTED IN JUST IN
RECENT MONTHS, OFTENTIMES, I
THINK MOST TIMES THE PERPETRATOR
UNFORTUNATELY HAS SOME SORT OF
MENTAL HEALTH INCIDENT IN THEIR
BACKGROUND THAT MAYBE LOCAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT KNEW ABOUT, BUT THE
FOLKS WHO SOLD THE FIREARMS
DIDN'T OR THE FEDERAL AGENTS
DIDN'T.
WE NEED TO FIX THAT SYSTEM.
CONGRESS COULD HAVE DONE THIS.
THEY HAD THE CHANCE TO DO IT,
BUT THEY HAVEN'T AND FRANKLY, IT
BAFFLES ME AS TO WHY.
SENATOR McCASKILL VOTED AGAINST
INCLUDING HEALTH RECORDS IN THE
BACKGROUND CHECK SYSTEM.
I THINK THAT WAS WRONG.
I KNOW THAT WAS THE PARTY LINE,
BUT I THINK THAT WAS WRONG.
I THINK WE NEED SOMEBODY TO
STAND UP AND SAY WE NEED TO DO
WHAT IS RIGHT.
I BELIEVE IN THE SECOND
AMENDMENT, I BELIEVE IN
PROTECTING THE SECOND AMENDMENT
RIGHT OF EVERYBODY AND
LAW-ABIDING FOLKS.
WE HAVE TO KEEP WEAPONS OUT OF
HANDS OF THOSE WHO ARE CRIMINAL,
THOSE WHO ARE DANGEROUS AND
PROVEN TO BE SO, AND PROTECT THE
SECOND AMENDMENT RIGHTS OF
LAW-ABIDING CITIZENS TO WE CAN
PROTECT OUR CHILDREN.
Judy: THANK YOU.
SENATOR McCASKILL.
McCaskill: OF COURSE, I
SUPPORT THE SECOND AMENDMENT,
BUT WHAT THE NRA HAS PED DEAD
TELLED FOR YEARS IS YOU CAN'T --
PED DELD FOR YEARS IS YOU CAN'T
SUPPORT THE SECOND AMENDMENT AND
GUN SAFETY AT THE SAME TIME, AND
YOU CAN.
I WAS RAISED IN A HOUSEHOLD IN
RURAL MISSOURI WHERE MY DAD
HUNTING WAS SOMETHING WE ALL
KNEW WE HAD TO GET OUT OF THE
WAY BECAUSE IT WAS WAY MORE
IMPORTANT TO HIM AT CERTAIN
TIMES OF YEAR THAN WE WERE.
WE CAME VERY CLOSE TO PASSING
THE BACKGROUND CHECKS.
THE NRA WAS WORKING AS HARD AS
THEY COULD TO STOP UNIVERSAL
BACKGROUND CHECKS.
I SUPPORT BANNING BUMP STOCKS.
YOU WOULD THINK AFTER LAS VEGAS
THAT WOULD BE SO EASY FOR US TO
GET DONE, BUT NO.
THERE ARE WAY TOO MANY PEOPLE,
INCLUDING MOST OF THE
REPUBLICANS, THAT ARE AFRAID OF
THE NRA.
I THINK WE'VE GOT TO -- WE HAVE
OUR INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
TELLING US THIS THERE ARE PEOPLE
THAT ARE SO DANGEROUS,
TERRORISTS, THAT THEY CAN'T FLY
IN OUR AIRPLANES, BUT THEY CAN
GO TO ANY GUN SHOW IN AMERICA
AND IN FACT TERRORISTS MAGAZINES
HAVE ADVISED THEM TO DO SO, AND
GET WEAPONRY.
THESE ARE THE THINGS WE MUST DO.
COMMON SENSE GUN SAFETY.
ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS TURN ON
YOUR TELEVISION AND YOU CAN TELL
WHO IS SUPPORTING WHO.
THE NRA IS VERY MUCH IN JOSH
HAWLEY'S CORNER BECAUSE THEY
BELIEVE HE WILL TOE THEIR LINE
AND BE AGAINST UNIVERSAL
BACKGROUND CHECKS, BE AGAINST
BANNING BUMP STOCKS, BEING
AGAINST NO FLY, NO BUY.
I ON THE OTHER HAND BELIEVE VERY
MUCH WE SHOULD GET THOSE THINGS
Judy: YOU WANT TO RESPOND?
Hawley: IT IS TRUE THAT
SENATOR McCASKILL HAS AN F
RATING FROM THE NRA AND IT'S
BECAUSE SHE WANTS TO TAKE AWAY
SECOND AMENDMENT RIGHTS FOR
LAW-ABIDING CITIZENS AND I
DON'T.
THE POINT IS, YOU DON'T HAVE TO
DO THAT TO PROTECT PEOPLE FROM
VIOLENCE.
I AM MISSOURI'S CHIEF LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
IT IS MY JOB TO PROTECT THE
PEOPLE OF MISSOURI.
THAT IS SOMETHING I'M COMMITTED
TO, BOTH AS A LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICER AND AS A FATHER AND
THERE ARE STEPS WE CAN TAKE
RIGHT NOW AND SHOULD TAKE.
FRANKLY, SHOULD HAVE BEEN TAKEN
A LONG TIME AGO IF FOLKS HAD
BEEN WILLING TO CROSS THE PARTY
LINE.
I WILL TO PROTECT THE PEOPLE OF
THIS STATE.
Judy: JO MANNIES HAS A
FOLLOW-UP.
Jo: BOTH OF YOU, I GUESS
SENATOR McCASKILL GETS IT FIRST.
THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT ARMING
TEACHERS, GETTING FEDERAL MONEY
TO SCHOOL DISTRICTS TO ARM
TEACHERS.
THAT'S BEEN A RATHER
CONTROVERSIAL IDEA.
SOME FEEL STRONGLY, SOME DON'T.
WHAT IS YOUR POSITION ON THAT
AND HOW WOULD YOU DEAL WITH
THAT?
McCaskill: I KNOW WHAT THE
NEEDS ARE RIGHT NOW.
WE JUST TALKED ABOUT THE
DEFICIT.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS NOT A
PRIMARY FUNDER OF EDUCATION IN
THIS COUNTRY.
THAT'S DONE AT THE STATE AND
LOCAL LEVEL.
I WOULD NEVER SUPPORT USING
FEDERAL MONEY WITH ALL THE NEEDS
WE HAVE TO BUY GUNS FOR SCHOOLS.
IF LOCAL COMMUNITIES WANT TO DO
THAT, I'M NOT SURE THAT IT
SHOULD BE PROHIBITED AS LONG AS
THERE WAS PROPER TRAINING, BUT I
WOULD BE AGAINST USING FEDERAL
DOLLARS TO DO THAT.
Hawley: I THINK IT'S UP TO
THE LOCAL SCHOOL DISTRICTS.
I THINK LOCAL SCHOOL DISTRICTS
CAN MAKE THESE DECISIONS ABOUT
WHAT'S BEST TO THEM, BUT I THINK
WE NEED TO GET SERIOUS ABOUT
PROTECTING OUR SCHOOLS.
WE NEED TO GET SERIOUS -- WE
SPEND A LOT OF TIME AND
RESOURCES PROTECTING THINGS LIKE
FOOTBALL GAMES AND ROCK CONCERTS
AND THAT'S FINE, THAT'S GOOD,
BUT AS A FATHER OF TWO YOUNG
CHILDREN, I WANT TO SEE OUR
SCHOOLS PROTECTED.
WHETHER TEACHERS SHOULD BE ARMED
OR NOT, AGAIN, THESE A DECISION
FOR LOCAL FOLKS TO MAKE.
Judy: DO YOU THINK FEDERAL
MONEY SHOULD GO INTO ARMING
TEACHERS?
Hawley: I THINK IT WOULD BE
BETTER TO GIVE FEDERAL MONEY TO
A SCHOOL SAFETY PROGRAMS WHERE
LOCAL FOLKS CAN DECIDE HOW TO DO
IT AND HOW TO USE IT AND WHAT
PROGRAMS WORK BEST FOR THEM.
Judy: WE HAVE ANOTHER
QUESTION FROM A MISSOURI VOTER
AND BACK TO RUTH.
WE RECEIVED THIS POSTING FROM
CHRISTY.
SHE LIVES IN AFFTON.
SHE WRITES, WHERE DOES EACH OF
THE CANDIDATES STAND ON TARIFFS?
THEY HURT MISSOURI FARMERS AND
WHAT'S YOUR STANCE ON GIVING
FARMERS FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE?
Judy: THIS IS A QUESTION FOR
SENATOR McCASKILL AND, OF
COURSE, A REFERENCE TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S TARIFFS, MAINLY AGAINST
CHINA AND THEN THE RETALIATORY
TARIFFS THAT HAVE AFFECT THE
UNITED STATES.
McCaskill: YEAH, THE TARIFFS
ARE BRUTAL FOR MISSOURI.
YOU KNOW, WE -- I LOVE WHERE I
LIVE.
I LOVE OUR STATE, AND I LOVE
EVERY PART OF IT, INCLUDING THE
STRENGTH WE HAVE IN AGRICULTURE,
AND OUR ECONOMY IS SO DEPENDENT
ON THE EXPORTING OF AGRICULTURAL
GOODS.
THESE TARIFFS HAVE KILLED
COMMODITY PRICES.
THERE'S NOT A BEAN FARMER IN
MISSOURI THAT'S GOING TO COME
OUT EVEN THIS YEAR AND THE HELP
THAT THEY'RE BEING GIVEN,
FRANKLY, IN SOME INSTANCES IS
INSULTING.
CORN, A PENNY A BUSHEL?
ALMOST NOT WORTH THE EFFORT.
THEY SAID A BUCK 60 FOR BEANS
AND NOW SONNY PERDUE HAS JUST
ANNOUNCED THAT IT WILL ONLY BE
80 KRENSS AND THEY CAN'T EVEN
PROMISE THEY'RE GOING TO GET
REST OF THE 80 CENTS.
FARMERS ARE TRYING TO PLAN AND
THE MARKET IN CHINA IS BEING
DESTROYED.
WE WORKED YEARS TO ESTABLISH A
MARKET FOR BEANS IN CHINA.
IT TOOK A LOT OF MONEY.
THE FARMERS OF THIS STATE ARE --
ONE OUT OF EVERY THREE OR FOUR
ROWS OF BEANS IN MISSOURI GOES
TO CHINA AND THAT MARKET IS NOT
GOING TO COME BACKS, EVEN IF THE
TARIFFS GO AWAY BECAUSE THEY'RE
FILLING THAT HOLE WITH IMPORTS
FROM OTHER STATES AND PAYING
THEIR FARMERS TO GROW MORE
BEANS.
SO IT IS REALLY A PROBLEM HERE
AND THIS IS A GOOD EXAMPLE -- I
MEAN, JOSH HAWLEY HAS SAID I
DISAGREE WITH NOTHING THE
PRESIDENT HAS DONE.
I DON'T KNOW ANYBODY I HAVEN'T
DISAGREED ON SOMETHING.
AND THIS IS WHERE A SENATOR FROM
MISSOURI HAS TO STAND TALL FOR
AGRICULTURE AND SAY THIS --
THESE TARIFFS ARE HURTING OUR
AGRICULTURAL ECONOMY.
SAY NOTHING OF SMALL
MANUFACTURING AND THE RAW COSTS.
WE'VE GOT A NAIL FACTORY IN
POPLAR BLUFF THAT IS HANGING ON
BY A FINGERNAIL RIGHT NOW
BECAUSE OF THE RAW COSTS GOING
UP OF THEIR INPUT COSTS AND I
HAVE DOZENS OF MANUFACTURERS I'M
ADVOCATING FOR RIGHT NOW FOR AN
EXCLUSION PROCESS THAT'S CHAOTIC
AND INCOMPETENT.
Judy: TWO MINUTES,
MR. HAWLEY.
Hawley: FIRST OF ALL, AS
SOMEBODY THAT COMES FROM A
FARMING FAMILY, THIS IS AN ISSUE
THAT MATTER AND LOT TO ME AND
I'M PROUD TO HAVE SUPPORT OF THE
FARMERS ACROSS OUR STATE.
THE MISSOURI FARM BUREAU HAS
ENDORSED ME AND MANY OTHERS.
I AGREE WITH SENATOR McCASKILL
ON ONE THING, DEDO NEED -- WE DO
NEED A SENATOR THAT STANDS TALL
FOR MISSOURIANS AND IT ISN'T HER
AND I WISH IT HAD BEEN.
FARMERS TELL ME AS I TRAVEL ALL
OVER THE STATE THAT SHE WON'T
EVEN MEET WITH THEM.
PRESIDENT OF THE FARM BUREAU
TOLD ME SHE ONES TAKE HIS PHONE
CALLS.
MISSOURI, YOU'RE IS OUR NUMBER
ONE INDUSTRY IN THE STATE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT'S ABOUT,
MAYBE SHE CAN TELL US.
THE TRUTH IS WE NEED SOMEBODY
WHO'S GOING TO STAND UP FOR
FARMERS AND THAT'S WHAT I'LL DO.
AS TO THE TARIFFS, LISTEN, WE'RE
IN A TRADE WAR.
THERE'S A TRADE WAR THAT WE DID
NOT START, CERTAINLY OUR FARMERS
DIDN'T START IT.
CHINA STARTED IT MANY YEARS AGO,
BUT IF WE'RE GOING TO BE IN THE
WAR, I'M FOR WINNING IT AND I
THINK WE HAVE TO STAND UP AND
LOOK TO WIN IT.
I THINK THIS PRESIDENT HAS HAD
RECENT SUCCESS THAT'S TREMENDOUS
IN CANADA AND MEXICO, OUR TWO
LARGEST TRADING PARTNERS, ABOUT
75% OF OUR AGRICULTURE EXPORT
DEVELOP THERE.
THAT'S A GREAT VICTORY.
I WISH SENATOR McCASKILL WOULD
HAVE BEEN WILLING TO STAND UP
EARLIER TO THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE
BEEN RIPPING OFF OUR FARMERS OR
JUST PHRASE THE PRESIDENT FOR
THE GOOD WORK HE'S -- PRAISE THE
PRESIDENT FOR THE GOOD WOSH HE'S
DONE WITH THIS GRAEMENT.
I DO DISAGREE WITH THE SENATOR
ON AID.
I THINK IF OUR FARMERS ARE
GETTING RETALIATED AGAINST BY
CHINA, THEY DESERVE TO BE
SUPPORTED, BUT WHEN THE
PRESIDENT ANNOUNCED HIS AID
PACKAGE, HE SAID IT WAS PICKING
WINNERS AND LOSERS, INTERVENING
IN THE MARKET.
WITH ALL DUE RESPECT, I WANT TO
PICK LOSERS AND WINNERS.
I WANT TO PICK MISSOURI FARMERS
AS WINNERS AND CHINA AS A
LOOSER.
McCaskill: BY THE WAY, WHEN I
SAID THAT, IT WAS BECAUSE I WAS
TALKING TO FARMERS.
THEY DON'T WANT A HANDOUT, THEY
WANT A MARKET.
IT WAS ME HAVING CONVERSATIONS
WITH FARMER, NOT THEIR LOBBYIST,
NOT A TRADE ASSOCIATION THAT
MAKES THEIR DECISIONS ON A WHOLE
LOT OF STUFF OTHER THAN FARMING
STUFF.
IT WAS FARMERS.
I CALL THEM, I GO TO THEM, I'M
ON THEIR FARMS, AND THEY FRANKLY
KNEW THAT THIS BUCK-60 WAS TO
THE GOING TO GET THEM WELL ON
BEANS, MUCH LESS A PENNY A
BUSHEL ON CORN.
YES, IT'S GREAT, AND I DO, IF
YOU ASK ME WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
HAS DONE, GETTING A NEW DEAL ON
NAFTA HAS GREAT PROMISE FOR
CONTINUITY AND STABILITY FOR
FARMERS IN MISSOURI.
THAT'S TERRIFIC, I'M NOT AFRAID
TO COMPLIMENT THE PRESIDENT, BUT
WHAT'S GOING ON WITH THIS TRADE
WAR WITH CHINA HURTS AND IT'S
GOING TO HURT FOR A LONG TIME
FOR MISSOURI AG.
Judy: THE NEXT QUESTION IS
FOR IN HAWLEY AND JO MANNIES HAS
THAT.
Jo: WE'RE GOING TO GO BACK TO
YOUR FAVORITE TOPIC, HEALTHCARE.
THIS IS A TWO-PARTER, SO I HAVE
ONE VERSION FOR THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL, ONE VERSION FOR THE
SENATOR, SO PLEASE BEAR WITH ME
WHEN YOU WANT TO RESPOND.
OKAY, FIRST FOR HAWLEY.
YOU ARE PART OF A LAWSUIT THAT
WOULD DO AWAY WITH THE
PROVISIONS IN THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT, INCLUDING THE
PROTECTIONS THAT WOULD REQUIRE
INSURANCE COMPANIES TO COVER
PEOPLE WITH PRE-EXISTING
CONDITIONS WITHOUT PAYING HIGHER
PREMIUMS.
YOU SAY CONGRESS CAN KEEP THAT
PROTECTION WITHOUT THE ACA, BUT
INSURANCE COMPANIES SAY THEIR
PRICES WILL SKYROCKET IF THEY
HAVE TO COVER PRE-EXISTING
CONDITIONS WITHOUT A MANDATE
THAT EVERYONE HAVE INSURANCE.
YOUR PLAN THAT YOU PROPOSED
EARLIER HAS GOTTEN MIXED
REVIEWS.
SOME SAY IT WON'T WORK.
HOW WOULD YOU RESOLVE THIS,
ESPECIALLY SINCE YOU DO WANT TO
GET RID OF THE WHOLE THING?
Hawley: WELL, THANK YOU, JO.
FIRST OF ALL, LET ME SAY THIS
THIS IS AN ISSUE THAT'S PERSONAL
TO ME, AS YOU KNOW.
EARLIER THIS YEAR, MY WIFE AND I
LEARNED THAT MY OLDER BOY, OUR
5-YEAR-OLD, HAS A RARE CHRONIC
ILLNESS.
IT'S A HIP AND JOINT CONDITION,
PRE-EXISTING CONDITION, AND
WE'RE ON THE FRONT END OF THAT
JOURNEY WITH HIM AND AS A
FAMILY, AND I THINK THERE'S
PROBABLY HARDLY A FAMILY IN
MISSOURI WHO HASN'T BEEN THROUGH
THAT EITHER WITH A CHILD OR FOR
YOURSELF OR CERTAINLY WITH A
LOVED ONE.
WRANGLING WITH THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES, TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
IS THIS IN NETWORK, IS IT NOT,
CAN WE GET IT COVERED AND
THINKING WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF I
DIDN'T HAVE INSURANCE.
IT'S AN IMPORTANT, IMPORTANT
TOPIC.
THE LAWSUIT IS ABOUT OBAMACARE.
IT'S ABOUT GETTING RID OF
OBAMACARE, AND YES, I THINK WE
SHOULD REPEAL AND REPLACE
OBAMACARE BECAUSE I THINK THAT
PEOPLE WITH PRE-EXISTING
CONDITIONS LIKE MY BOY ARE BEING
HELD HOSTAGE TO THE DRAMATIC
PRICE INCREASES THAT THEY'RE
BEING FORCED TO PAY.
I WAS JUST TALKING TO A FAMILY
IN SIKESTON DOWN IN THE BOOT
HEEL TELLING ME ABOUT THEIR SON
WITH A PRE-EXISTING CONDITION.
HIS INSURANCE USED TO BE $300 A
MONTH AND NOW IT'S $1200 A MONTH
AND INCREASING.
AGAIN, SENATOR McCASKILL SEEMS
TO MAKE LIGHT OF THAT, BUT FOR
MOST FAMILIES, THAT IS SIMPLY
UNAFFORDABLE AND UNSUSTAINABLE.
THIS IS WHY WE NEED TO REPEAL
AND REPLACE.
I FAVOR FORCING INSURANCE
COMPANIES TO COVER PEOPLE LIKE
MY OWN BOY WITH PRE-EXISTING
KNLS IN THE LAW.
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF WAYS, JO,
TO TAKE THAT INTO EFFECT.
YOU CAN DO IT LIKE THE STATE OF
MAINE HAS DONE IT WITH A FORM OF
REINSURANCE.
YOU CAN DO IT WITH FEDERAL
EXCHANGES, DO IT WITH DIRECT
SUBSIDIES.
THERE ARE MULTIPLE WAYS.
MY QUESTION IS WILL SENATOR
McCASKILL SUPPORT ANY PLAN, ANY
PLAN TO PROTECT PEOPLE WITH
PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS THAT
ISN'T OBAMACARE?
ANY PLAN THAT ISN'T OBAMACARE.
WHAT WE SEE FROM THE DEMOCRATS
IS A FULL-THROATED DEFENSE OF
OBAMACARE DAY AND NIGHT, BUT
VERY LITTLE TALK ABOUT ACTUALLY
PROTECTING PRE-EXISTING
CONDITIONS UNLESS IT'S ABOUT
OBAMACARE.
I DON'T THINK PEOPLE SHOULD BE
HELD HOSTAGE TO THAT PARTY LINE.
I THINK WE NEED SOMEBODY WHO
WILL WORK ACROSS THE AISLE.
Jo: LET ME ASK THE SENATOR
THIS RELATED QUESTION.
YOUR CAMPAIGN CENTER FEES IS
YOUR SUPPORT FOR REQUIRING
INSURANCE COMPANIES TO COVER
PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS, BUT YOU
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT ARE MONTHS PERFECT.
WHAT ARE THE MAIN PROBLEMS AND
HOW -- IS NOT PERFECT.
HOW WOULD YOU ADDRESS THEM,
ESPECIALLY IF THERE'S STILL A
REPUBLICAN IN THE WHITE HOUSE
AND REPUBLICANS STILL CONTROL
CONGRESS?
McCaskill: I THINK IT WILL BE
DIFFICULT.
THEY PROMISED TO REPEAL AND
REPLACE OVER AND OVER AND OVER
AGAIN.
THEY'RE THIS CHARGE.
THEY WOULDN'T GET ENOUGH
REPUBLICAN VOTES FOR THEIR
REPLACE PLAN BECAUSE IT WAS
GOING TO HURT PEOPLE SO MUCH.
REPUBLICAN SENATORS WERE
RELUCTANT TO VOTE FOR IT.
WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS COME
TOGETHER AND FIX THE PARTS WE
CAN FIX.
I AGREE WITH JOSH HAWLEY WE CAN
DO MORE WITH REINSURANCE.
WE HAVE A BILL TO DO THAT.
IT'S A BIPARTISAN BILL WITH
SUSAN COLLINS AND SENATOR
NELSON.
MITCH McCONNELL PROMISED TO VOTE
ON IT AND HE REFUSED TO LET US
VOTE ON IT.
THERE'S ANOTHER BILL TO DO A
PLAN THAT BRINGS MORE PEOPLE
INTO THE SCHAPTION AT CHEAPER
RATES AND ONCE AGAIN, WE ARE NOT
BEING ALLOWED TO VOTE ON IT.
LET'S REALLY DRILL DOWN ON WHAT
JOSH HAWLEY IS SAYING.
BY THE WAY, I AM SO SORRY THAT
YOU INTERPRETED MY RETWEETING OF
A BLOG THAT I WAS BEING CRITICAL
OF YOUR FAMILY.
YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL FAMILY.
YOU SHOULD BE VERY PROUD OF
YOUR SON IS CUTE AND I CAN SEE
YOU AND YOUR WIFE LOVE HIM VERY
MUCH, SO I CERTAINLY HAD NO
INTENTION, I'M NOT RUNNING MY
CAMPAIGN ON ATTACKING SOMEBODY'S
FAMILY.
SOMEBODY IS, BUT IT'S NOT ME.
I WOULD TELL YOU THAT IT IS --
THIS IS ALL ABOUT A CAMPAIGN NOW
WITH ATTORNEY GENERAL HAWLEY
BECAUSE HE HAS NO BACKUP IF HIS
LAWSUIT IS SUCCESSFUL.
THE PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFITS
AND MEDICARE GO AWAY, THE
INSURANCE COMPANIES GET A PAY
DAY.
THERE'S NO MORE FREE PREVENTION
PROGRAMS, NO MORE KIDS ON YOUR
POLICIES UNTIL THEY'RE 26, NO
MORE LIMIT ON WHAT INSURANCE
COMPANIES CAN SPEND ON CEOS AND
HIRING PEOPLE TO DENY YOUR
CLAIM.
HERE'S WHAT TELLS YOU A LOT.
FIRST OF ALL, THE LAWYERS ASK
THE JUDGES NOT TO DECIDE THE
CASE UNTIL AFTER NOVEMBER.
WONDER WHY?
SECONDLY, WHEN A REPUBLICAN
TRIED TO GIVE HIM COVER AND
INTRODUCE A BILL TO COVER BRIE
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND JOSH
HAWLEY IMMEDIATELY TWEETED HE
WAS FOR IT, GUESS WHAT THE BILL
DID?
IT SAID YOU COULD -- HAD TO GIVE
INSURANCE FOR PRE-EXISTING
CONDITIONS, BUT YOU DIDN'T HAVE
TO COVER THE PRE-EXISTING
CONDITION.
Judy: MR. HAWLEY, DO YOU WANT
TO RESPOND?
Hawley: WELL, THERE'S A LOT
THERE TO RESPOND TO.
LISTEN, HERE'S THE BASIC --
HERE'S THE BOTTOM LINE.
SENATOR McCASKILL WILL NOT
SUPPORT ANY PLAN TO COVER PEOPLE
WITH PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS
THAT ISN'T OBAMACARE.
OBAMACARE WAS WRITTEN TO HOLD
HOSTAGE PEOPLE WITH PRE-EXISTING
CONDITIONS SO YOU HAVE TO HAVE
OBAMACARE SUPPOSEDLY TO GET
THERE COVERAGE AND THAT'S
EXACTLY WHAT SHE'S BASED THIS
CAMPAIGN ON AND THAT'S SIMPLY
FALSE.
WE CAN PROTECT PEOPLE AND WE
MUST WITH PRE-EXISTING
CONDITIONS, BUT THEY SHOULDN'T
BE FORCED TO PAY THE PRICES
THEY'RE PAYING NOW.
THEY SHOULDN'T HAVE THE
NARROWING OF NETWORKS WE'RE
SEEING ALL OVER THE STATE
BECAUSE OF OBAMACARE.
I WILL WORK ACROSS PARTY LINES
WITH ANYBODY WHO SHARES THE GOAL
OF PROTECTING THOSE WITH
PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS AND I
THINK, TOO, YOUNG PEOPLE ON
THEIR PARENTS INSURANCE, BUT I
DO NOT THINK FOLKS SHOULD BE
HELD HOSTAGE TO THE LIBERAL
FAILED EXPERIMENT OF OBAMACARE
AND WE NEED SOMEBODY WHO'S NOT
JUST TOGETHER THE PARTY LINE ON
THIS.
Judy: SENATOR McCASKILL, DID
YOU WANT TO RESPOND?
I HAVE A QUICK FOLLOW-UP.
McCaskill: SURE.
Judy: THAT IS FOR MR. HAWLEY.
LET'S TALK SPECIFICS FOR JUST A
MOMENT.
THE REPUBLICAN ALTERNATIVES TO
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT ON --
THE LANGUAGE ON PRE-EXISTING
CONDITIONS, THIS IS BOTH THE
HOUSE AND SENATE VERSION, WOULD
ASSURE COVERAGE OF PRE-EXISTING,
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, IT WOULD
ALLOW STATES TO GIVE INSURANCE
COMPANIES THE ABILITY TO RAISE
RATES AND NOT COVER CERTAIN
ESSENTIAL QUESTIONS.
SO MY QUESTION IS, IS THAT
ACCEPTABLE TO YOU OR IS IT
PREFERABLE TO GO TO THE LANGUAGE
IN THE ORIGINAL -- IN THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WHICH YOU
FILED SUIT AGAINST?
Hawley: THAT IS NOT
ACCEPTABLE TO ME, WHAT YOU JUST
PROPOSED, JUDY, AND CERTAINLY
THAT'S NOT MY -- OR WHAT YOU
JUST READ.
THAT'S NOT MY PROPOSAL.
I DON'T HAVE A LOT OF SYMPATHY,
FIRST OF ALL, FOR INSURANCE
COMPANIES.
SOMEONE MENTIONED EARLIER, JO,
THAT I THINK THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES SAY WE NEED THIS OR
THAT.
THEY'RE GETTING RICH OFF
OBAMACARE.
THEY HAVE THESE OPEN-ENDED
PAYMENTS THAT OBAMACARE GIVES
THEM.
THAT'S YOUR TAX DOLLARS.
THEY'RE MAKING RECORD PROFITS.
SENATOR McCASKILL TAKES MORE
MONEY THAN ANYBODY IN CONGRESS
FROM THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY
EXCEPT FOR ONE OTHER LIBERAL, SO
I'M NOT TOO KEEN ON THE
INSURANCE INDUSTRY.
BUT I WILL SAY THIS.
I THINK THAT WE HAVE GOT TO
REQUIRE THEM TO COVER PEOPLE
WITH PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS ON
THE SAME TERMS AS EVERYBODY
ELSE, AND THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
SHOULD PROVIDE A GUARANTEE FOR
THAT.
WE CAN DO THAT, IT WOULD BE MUCH
LEST COSTLY THAN OBAMACARE, BUT
IT WOULD COVER THE FOLKS WHO
NEED THE COVERAGE.
McCaskill: YOU KNOW, THIS IS
SO FRUSTRATING.
HE HAS NO PLAN.
HE HAS NO PLAN THAT WILL WORK.
THE ONLY PLAN HE'S PUT OUT THERE
WAS A PRESS RELEASE PLAN AND
BOTH ED TOWARD BOARDS SAID --
EDITORIAL BOARDS SAID IT WAS
ALMOST LAUGHABLE HOW UNWORKABLE
IT WAS.
YOU DON'T GO TO COURT AND GET
RID OF PROTECTIONS WHEN THERE'S
NO BACKUP, WHEN PEOPLE WILL BE
IN A FREE FALL.
YOU WAIT AND WORK WITH PEOPLE
AND TRY TO FIX IT AND CHANGE IT.
THAT'S WHY I HAVE A RECORD THAT
I WORK ACROSS THE AISLE.
I AM MORE THAN HAPPY TO WORK
WITH ANYBODY TO MAKE SURE THESE
PROTECTIONS STAY IN PLACE, BUT I
SURE AS HECK WOULD NOT GO TO
COURT WITH TAXPAYER MONEY AND
GET RID OF IT BEFORE THE BACKUP
WAS IN PLACE.
Judy: A QUESTION FROM
MISSOURI VOTER.
RUTH EZELL.
WE HAVE A QUESTION FOR THE
SENATOR AND IT REGARDS POLICE
COMMUNITY RELATIONS.
WHAT LEGISLATION IN YOUR
OPINION CAN BE DRAFTED TO HELP
EASE RACIAL TENSION BETWEEN
CITIZENS AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
WITHOUT INCREASING LAW
ENFORCEMENT?
Judy: THAT'S TO SENATOR
McCASKILL, CORRECT?
EITHER AND BOTH.
Judy: STARTING WITH SENATOR
McCASKILL.
WHEN I WAS THE PROSECUTOR
OVER IN KANSAS CITY, WE HAD A
HUGE PROBLEM AND IT WAS A LAW --
IT WAS A HOMICIDE RATE AND WHAT
WE FOUND WAS WE WERE HAVING A
GREAT DEAL OF DIFFICULTY GETTING
WITNESSES TO HELP US SOLVE
HOMICIDES BECAUSE OF A LACK OF
TRUST IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
NO ONE WANTED TO TALK TO THE
POLICE, MUCH LESS PUT IT OUT
THERE, AND NAIL SOMEBODY FOR A
HOMICIDE.
SO WE BEGAN WORKING ON COMMUNITY
POLICING, AND NOT ONLY DID WE DO
COMMUNITY POLICING, WE WENT A
STEP FURTHER AND DID COMMUNITY
PROSECUTION.
SO IN ALL THE NEIGHBORHOODS,
ESPECIALLY THOSE THAT WERE
REALLY STRUGGLING WITH HIGH
CRIME RATES, THE NEIGHBORS KNEW
WHO THE POLICE OFFICERS WERE
THAT THEY COULD CALLS A TRUSS
AND THEY EVEN KNEW WHICH -- CALL
AND TRUST AND THEY EVEN KNEW
WHICH PROSECUTOR TO CALL AND
TRUST.
WE HAVE TO GET BACK TO THE POINT
WHERE POLICE OFFICERS ARE NOT
JUST ANSWERING 911 CALLS.
THEY NEED TO HAVE ESTABLISHED
ROUTES IN A COMMUNITY BECAUSE
THIS IS ALL ABOUT TRUST.
THIS IS ALL ABOUT PEOPLE IN THE
COMMUNITY FEELING THAT THE
POLICE ARE WORKING IN THEIR BEST
INTEREST AND THE POLICE
UNDERSTANDING THAT THE VAST
MAJORITY OF THE PEOPLE IN THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD NEED NOTHING MORE
THAN PROTECTION FROM THEM.
AND THAT'S HOW WE REBUILD THIS.
WE CAN DO IT AGAIN IF WE COULD
GET THE RIGHT RESOURCES INTO
COMMUNITY POLICING AND THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT CAN HELP WITH
THAT.
Judy: MR. HAWLEY.
Hawley: THANK YOU VERY MUCH
FOR THE QUESTION.
TELL ME YOUR NAME ONE MORE TIME?
ANYWAYS NICE TO MEET YOI AND
THANK YOU AGAIN FOR YOUR
QUESTION.
IT'S A HUGELY IMPORTANT
QUESTION, AND AS THE STATE'S
CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER,
ONE I TAKE SERIOUSLY AND HAVE TO
DEAL WITH EVERY DAY.
I WANT TO SAY THIS, THAT MY
BEDROCK PRINCIPLE IS THAT EVERY
PERSON IN EVERY COMMUNITY IN
THIS STATE DESERVES THE FAIR AND
EQUAL PROTECTION OF THE RULE OF
LAW AND THE FAIR AND EQUAL
BENEFIT OF THE RULE OF LAW,
THOSE PROTECTIONS FROM VIOLENCE,
THOSE PROTECTIONS FOR PERSONAL
SAFETY, FOR WHAT YOU WANT TO DO
WITH YOUR LIFE AND I THINK
THAT'S VITALLY IMPORTANT.
PART OF WHAT I DO AS ATTORNEY
GENERAL AND EMPOWERED TO DO
UNDER THE LAW IS EVERY YEAR WE
ASSEMBLE A REPORT ABOUT WHERE
PEOPLE ARE STOPPED, VEHICLES
STOPPED IN THE STATE.
WE GET IT FROM ALL THIS DATA,
ALL THE DIFFERENT LAW
ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES IN THE
STATE AND WE PUT IT TOGETHER AND
IT'S SUPPOSED TO SHOW WHAT ARE
THE RACIAL BACKGROUNDS OF PEOPLE
BEING STOPPED, WHY WERE THEY
STOPPED, WHERE DID THEY COME
FROM.
WE MADE IMPORTANT CHANGES TO
THAT REPORT TO GET MORE
INFORMATION THAT HELP US
UNDERSTAND AND I THINK TAKING
STEPS LIKE THAT WHERE WE PROMOTE
THIS DIALOGUE THAT YOU WERE
TALKING ABOUT BETWEEN LAUNCHES
AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES IS
CRITICAL.
I DO WANT TO SAY AS SOMEBODY WHO
WORKS WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT, WITH
COPS FROM ALL ACROSS THE STATE,
I KNOW OUR COPS ARE WORKING HARD
AND THEY WANT TO BRING THE FAIR
AND EQUAL PROTECTION OF THE RULE
OF LAW.
I THINK THEY'RE DOING A GREAT
JOB.
THEY'RE CERTAINLY OUT THERE
RISKING THEIR LIVES AND COPS
FROM EVERY NEIGHBORHOOD, EVERY
CITY, ALL KINDS OF BACKGROUNDS,
THEY'RE DOING A GREAT JOB AND
IT'S A PRIVILEGE TO GET TO WORK
WITH THEM.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR QUESTION.
McCaskill: IF I CAN FOLLOWS
UP ON THAT.
I CERTAINLY AGREE WITH JOSH THAT
OUR POLICE OFFICERS ARE BRAVE
AND WONDERFUL AND I'M HONORED TO
WORK WITH SO MANY OF THEM OVER
THE YEARS RG BUT I WAS SURPRISED
WHEN THE REPORT CAME OUT, THE
RACIAL PROFILING REPORT THAT WAS
DONE BY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S
OFFICE BECAUSE THE NUMBERS WERE
GOING THE WRONG WAY.
RACIAL PROFILING WAS GOING UP,
NOT DOWN, AND I EXPECTED THERE
TO BE A PRESS CONFERENCE.
I EXPECTED THERE TO BE A SUMMIT
CALLED.
I EXPECTED THERE TO BE A PUBLIC
DIALOGUE ABOUT THE FACT THAT
THESE NUMBERS WERE GOING THE
WRONG DIRECTION, AND THERE WAS
NOTHING.
THERE WAS NOTHING.
Hawley: I THINK THAT WAS
DIRECTED AT ME.
RATHER THAN GRAND STANDING OR
RUSHING TO A MICROPHONE OR
TRYING TO SCORE CHEAP POLITICAL
POINTS, WHAT WE DID WAS ACTUALLY
WORK WITH THE COMMUNITIES WHO
WERE AFFECTED.
WE SAT DOWN WITH COMMUNITY
LEADERS, KANSAS CITY AND
ST. LOUIS AND FROM ACROSS THE
COUNTRY OR ACROSS THE STATE,
RATHER, AND WE SAID WHAT NEEDS
TO HAPPEN IN THIS REPORT, WHAT
NEEDS TO CHANGE HERE.
ONE OF THE THINGS WE SAID IS WE
NEED TO CHANGE THE WAY WE GET
THE DATA, WE NEED MORE
INFORMATION, WE NEED TO SEE WHAT
COMMUNITIES THESE FOLKS ARE
FROM, HAVE GREATER ACCESS TO IT,
GET EVEN MORE INFORMATION, SO
THAT'S WHAT WE DID.
WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE DOING
THAT, NOT SO WE CAN TAKE
POLITICAL CREDIT FOR IT, BUT SO
WE CAN PEOPLE KEEP SAFE.
Judy: WE HAVE ANOTHER
QUESTION FROM A MISSOURI VOTER
AND THIS IS FOR THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL.
THIS IS KIM RUDOLPH, HE'S
FROM BRENTWOOD AND HE HAS A
QUESTION ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE.
DESPISE WARNINGS FROM THE
SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY THAT WE
MUST SIGNIFICANTLY DECREASE THE
EFFECTS OF GLOBAL WARMING, MUCH
LARGE CORPORATIONS OPPOSES
FEDERAL LAWS WHICH BURDEN THEIR
BUSINESSES.
WHAT SHOULD THE UNITED STATES DO
TO ENSURE WE PROTECT THE PLANET
WITHOUT SACRIFICING OUR ABILITY
TO BE ECONOMICALLY COMPETITIVE?
AND IT'S TIM?
NICE TO MEET YOU AND THANK
YOU FOR YOUR QUESTION AND THANK
YOU FOR YOUR PASSION FOR THIS
ISSUE.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THAT.
CLIMATE CHANGE IS AN IMPORTANT
TOPIC, OF COURSE, AND IT'S
SOMETHING THAT WE NEED TO BE
AWARE OF.
I'M SURE THE CLIMATE IS CHANGING
AND THAT HUMANS ARE CONTRIBUTING
TO IT AND WE SHOULD LOOK AT
SCIENCE AND SEE WHAT THE
OUTCOMES CAN BE AND WHAT WE CAN
DO.
I WILL SAY THIS.
AS SOMEBODY WHO COMES FROM A
FARMING FAMILY IN A STATE WHERE
AGRICULTURE IS OUR NUMBER ONE
INDUSTRY, I AM VERY CONCERNED
ABOUT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
COMING FROM THE EPA AND
ELSEWHERE THAT CHOKE OFF OUR
FAMILY FARMS, THAT CHOKE OFF
SMALL BUSINESSES.
AS I TALK TO FARMERS ALL OVER
OUR STATE, WHAT I HEAR FROM THEM
OVER AND OVER IS THE EPA IS
REGULATING HOW THEY CAN USE
WATER, IT'S REGULATING THE LAND
THEY CAN USE, IT'S REGULATING
HOW THEY CAN DO BUSINESS, AND I
THINK FRANKLY IT'S ALL OUT OF
PROPORTION AND I THINK IT'S A
PROBLEM, IT'S A DANGER.
SENATOR McCASKILL HAS SUPPORTED
THOSE ANTICIPATE REGULATIONS$
LIKE WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES
THAT SHE VOTED TO KEEP AFTER
MISSOURI FARMERS SAID OVER AND
OVER AND OVER THAT IT WAS
DETRIMENTAL TO THEM AND HARMING
THEIR LIVE LIE HOOD.
WE HAVE TO PROTECT FOLKS LIKE
OUR FARMERS AND SMALL BUSINESSES
WHO ARE PROVIDING OUR FOOD AND
JOBS AND WAGES.
Judy: SENATOR McCASKILL.
McCaskill: THERE'S TWO ISSUES
HERE.
ONE IS MAKE SURE REGULATION IS
REASONABLE.
I ACTUALLY OPPOSED WOTUS AND
THERE WERE OTHER REGULATIONS,
LIKE REGULATING FARM DEATH ANDS
I SAID ARE YOU KIDDING, YOU'RE
NOT GOING DO THAT.
KEEP IN MIND THAT ATTORNEY
GENERAL HAWLEY THOUGHT SCOTT
PRUITT WAS A GREAT CHOICE FOR
THE EPA.
SCOTT PRUITT IS SOMEONE WHO
BELIEVES THE EPA SHOULD NOT EVEN
BE THERE.
THERE SHOULD BE NO REGULATIONS
WHATSOEVER.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE PICTURES
FROM CHINA AND ALL THE PEOPLE
WALKING AROUND WITH MASKS ON,
YOU KNOW, IMAGINE IF YOU HAVE TO
STOP AT THE CITY LIMITS OF
ST. LOUIS TO GET YOUR MASK
BEFORE YOU WENT TO THE CARDINAL
GAMES.
OR HOW ABOUT WATER FROM THE TAPS
TO MIX FORMULA.
MOST PLACES IN THE WORLD, YOU
CAN'T USE TAP WATER TO MIX
FORMULA BECAUSE THE DRINKING
WATER IS SO DANGEROUS.
THE CLIMATE CHANGE IS REAL, IT'S
TIME WE TRUST OUR SCIENTISTS.
IT'S TIME WE ACCEPT SOME
REASONABLE REGULATION TO KEEP
OUR WATER CLEAN AND OUR AIR
POLLUTION-FREE AND OBVIOUSLY
TURNING TO ALTERNATIVE FUELS IS
VERY IMPORTANT.
THAT'S WHY I'VE BEEN A BIG
SUPPORTER OF BIOFUELS, BIG
SUPPORTER OF SOLAR AND WIND, A
BIG SUPPORTER OF THE FUEL
EFFICIENCY STARNS THAT THE
PRESIDENT IS GOING TO ABANDON.
ALL THESE THINGS MATTER WHEN IT
COMES TO CLIMATE.
WE'RE SEEING EXTREME WEATHER
BECAUSE OF CLIMATE.
IF WE DON'T START RESPECTING THE
SCIENCE, WE'RE DOING A HUGE
DISSERVICE TO MY 11, ALMOST 12
GRANDCHILDREN.
Judy: ALL RIGHT.
THE NEXT QUESTION COMES FROM
MIKE BUSH.
Mike: MR. HAWLEY, MISSOURI
VOTERS OVERWHELMINGLY REJECTED
MAKING MISSOURI A RIGHT-TO-WORK
STATE, 67 TO 32%.
YOU'VE SAID IN THE PAST THAT
NOBODY SHOULD BE FORCED TO PAY
UNION DUES.
THIS YEAR THE NATIONAL
RIGHT-TO-WORK COMMITTEE IS
TELLING THEIR SUPPORTERS THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS PROMISED,
PERSONALLY PROMISED, T SIGN A
NATIONAL RIGHT-TO-WORK BILL IF
IT COMES ACROSS HIS DESK.
IS THAT SOMETHING YOU WOULD
SUPPORT?
Hawley: I'D HAVE TO -- I'M
NOT FAMILIAR WITH THAT PLEDGE,
MIKE, SO I'D HAVE TO SEE THE
DETAILS OF WHAT HE'S TALKING
ABOUT.
I THINK THE PEOPLE OF MISSOURI
HAVE BEEN PRETTY CLEAR ON THIS
ISSUE, THEY GOT THE CHANCE TO
VOTE ON IT AND THE MARGIN WAS
PRETTY OVERWHELMING AND WHAT THE
PEOPLE SAY IS WHAT GOES.
AND I'M PROUD OF THE FACT THAT I
WILL SUPPORT AND THE PEOPLE OF
MY STATE SUPPORT AND I HAVE A
CRITICISM OF SENATOR McCASKILL,
IT'S NOT THAT SHE IS A BAD
PERSON.
SHE'S NOT.
I THINK SHE'S A GOOD PERSON.
IT'S NOT THAT HER RECORD HAD
BEEN TERRIBLE.
SHE'S HAD 36 YEARS OF
DISTINGUISHED SERVICE TO THE
STATE AND THIS COUNTRY, BUT SHE
DOES NOT REPRESENT THIS STATE
ANYMORE.
SHE DOES NOT REPRESENT THE
PEOPLE OF MISSOURI.
SHE HAS NOT ACCEPTED WHAT THE
PEOPLE SAID IN 2016.
SHE HAS WORKED WITH THIS
PRESIDENT OR ADMINISTRATION ON
ANY MAJOR PRIORITIES.
SHE HAS NOT STOOD UP AND VOTED,
WHETHER IT'S THE SUPREME COURT
OR WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES
WHICH SHE VOTED TO KEEP, BY THE
WAY.
SHE HAS SIMPLY NOT VOTED WITH
THIS STATE ANYMORE.
SHE'S BECOME A PARTY LINE
LIBERAL AND THAT IS, I THINK,
THE BIGGEST CRITICISM I HAVE.
Mike: JUST SO I'M CLEAR, YOU
NO LONGER SUPPORT RIGHT TO WORK
IN MISSOURI.
Hawley: YOU ASKED ME ABOUT
THE PRESIDENT AND I DON'T WHAT
HE SAID ON THAT AND YOU ASKED ME
ABOUT A BILL THAT I HAVEN'T
SEEN.
McCaskill: THAT'S A DODGES
ABOUT I DON'T THINK HE WANTS TO
SAY ANYTHING DIFFERENT THAN THE
PRESIDENT BECAUSE HE'S WORRIED
WHAT HAPPENS IF HE SAYS ANYTHING
DIFFERENT THAN THE PRESIDENT.
JOSH HAWLEY HAS VERY CLEAR THAT
HE SUPPORTED RIGHT-TO-WORK.
HIS FIRST CAMPAIGN, WHICH WAS A
VERY SHORT TIME AGO.
YOU MIGHT REMEMBER THE LADDERS
AD.
A VERY SHORT TIME AGO, HE SAID
HIS CAMPAIGN WAS FUNDED, ALMOST
ENTIRELY, BY THE BIGGEST
RIGHT-TO-WORK ADVOCATE IN THE
STATE.
75%, OVER $4 MILLION, FROM
FAMILY TO HIS CAMPAIGN TO PUT
HIM IN THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S
OFFICE.
OBVIOUSLY HE SUPPORTED
RIGHT-TO-WOK.
HE'S AGAINST INCREASING THE
MINIMUM WAGE.
HE WON'T TELL YOU HOW HE VOTED
ON PROP A.
HERE'S THE THING WHEN YOU GO TO
THE SENATE.
I KNOW I CAST VOTES THAT A LOT
OF MISSOURIANS DISAGREE W I GET
THAT.
BUT YOU HAVE TO CAST A VOTE AND
YOU HAVE TO BE UP FRONT ABOUT
WHERE YOU STAND.
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO MAKE
EVERYBODY HAPPY AND I WILL TELL
YOU, I WILL NEVER BE AFRAID TO
TELL A PRESIDENT, WHETHER I WAS
PRESIDENT OBAMA ON KEYSTONE
PIPELINE OR WHETHER IT'S
PRESIDENT TRUMP ON RIGHT-TO-WORK
FOR LESS, I AM NEVER GOING TO BE
AFRAID TO STAND UP FOR WHAT I
BELIEVE IN AND WHAT I THINK I
OWE THE PEOPLE OF MISSOURI IN
TERMS OF A CLEAR ANSWER.
Judy: MR. HAWLEY, I JUST WANT
TO PICK UP ON SOMETHING THE
SENATOR SAID.
SHE MENTIONED MINIMUM WAGE WHICH
OF COURSE IS ON THE BALLOT IN
MISSOURI THIS YEAR.
WHAT IS YOUR POSITION ON IT, ON
RAISING IT, AND, SENATOR, IF YOU
CAN CLARIFY YOUR POSITION.
Hawley: I'M GOING TO VOTE NO
ON THAT PARTICULAR PROVISION.
WE NEED A WAGE INCREASE AND WE
NEED IT ACROSS THE BOARD, BUT
I'M GOING TO VOTE NO ON THE
MISSOURI MEASURE BECAUSE I'M
WORRIED THAT IT WILL RAISE THE
MINIMUM HERE QUICKLY AND OUT OF
STEP WITH OTHER STATES.
I DON'T WANT TO SEE JOBS LOST.
LET ME SAY THIS, THOUGH, JUDIES
ABOUT WAGE GROWTH IS AT A
TEN-YEAR HIGH IN THIS COUNTRY.
WAGES HAVE BEEN STAGNANT FOR
DECADES.
SENATOR McCASKILL HAS BEEN IN
POLITICS FOR 36 YEARS.
DURING THAT ENTIRE TIME, JOBS
HAVE GONE OVERSEAS.
SHE'S WATCHED THOUSANDS OF JOBS
LEAVE THIS STATE.
WANELS HAVE BEEN FLAT OR
DECLINING IN THIS STATE.
THEY ARE JUST NOW BEGINNING TO
GROW.
MIDDLE CLASS INCOME BEGINNING TO
GROW, REACHING A NEW HIGH, AND
WHAT DOES SENATOR McCASKILL WANT
TO DO?
ADOPT THE PARTY LINE, RAISE YOUR
TAXES.
SHE'S ALREADY TALKED ABOUT IT
TONIGHT.
SHE VOTED NO ON THE TAX CUT.
SHE WANTS TO REVERSE IT AND
RAISE YOUR TAXES, RAISE MIDDLE
CLASS TAXES.
I THINK WE CANNOT AFFORD TO GO
BACK TO FALLING WAGES AND
SENDING JOBS OVERSEAS AND THAT'S
WHY I WOULD NOT VOTE FOR THE
LIBERAL PARTY LINE.
McCaskill: I NEVER SAID I
WOULD RAISE STACKS -- RAISE
TAXES ON THE MIDDLE CLASS, EVER,
EVER.
I SAID LET'S TALK ABOUT PEOPLE
THAT ARE MAKING MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS ON THEIR TAXES.
THIS IS FASCINATING TO ME.
THIS IS SUCH A REASONABLE
MINIMUM WAGE PROPOSAL.
HE LIKES TO LECTURE ABOUT THE
WORKING PEOPLE AND FLYOVER
COUNTRY AND HOW THEY'RE GETTING
IGNORED.
THIS IS AN 85 CENTS A YEAR
INCREASE.
GRADUALLY GOING UP TO $12 AN
HOUR AND AMAZON IS ALREADY
PAYING $15 AN HOUR.
WE HAVE OVER 100,000 PARENTS IN
MISSOURI THAT ARE TRYING TO
RAISE THEIR CHILDREN ON A
MINIMUM WAGE JOB.
RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE IS THE
RIGHT THING TO DO, AND WAGES ARE
NOT GROWING.
BETWEEN LAST YEAR AND THIS YEAR,
THE FIRST THREE QUARTERS, REAL
WAGES HAVE GONE DOWN 1.8%.
THAT'S AFTER THE TAX CUT THAT
WAS SUPPOSED TO PUT ALL THIS
MONEY IN EVERYBODY'S POCKET.
CORPORATE PROFITS ARE WAY UP,
THE DEFICIT IS UP, BUT WAGES
AREN'T.
WE NEED TO SUPPORT THE MINIMUM
WAGE AND DIE 100%.
Hawley: LET ME BE CLEAR.
SENATOR McCASKILL HAD THE CHANCE
TO VOTE FOR A MIDDLE CLASS TAX
CUT.
SHE'S RAISED YOUR TAXES OVER 200
TIMES.
SHE HAD THE CHANCE TO VOTE FOR
ONE.
SHE VOTED NO.
SHE VOTED TO KEEP YOUR TAXES
HIGHER AND SHE REFERRED TO THEM
AS SCRAP.
THAT WASN'T NANCY PELOSI.
NANCY PELOSI CALLED THEM CRUMBS.
SENATOR McCASKILL CALLED THEM
SCRAPS.
NOW, THEY MAY BE SCRAPS TO HER,
BUT THEY ARE NOT SCRAPS.
THOSE TAX CUTS IS PUTTING MORE
MONEY IN THE POCKETS OF
HARD-WORKING MISSOURIANS
BUSINESS DOUBLING THE CHILD TAX
CREDIT.
AVERAGE MISSOURI FAMILIES SAVE
ABOUT $1200 A YEAR.
THAT'S REAL MONEY FOR THE PEOPLE
OF MISSOURI.
I DO NOT WANT TO SEE IT TAKEN
AWAY.
WE NEED SOMEBODY WHO'S NOT JUST
FOLLOWING THE LIBERAL PARTY
LINE.
McCaskill: THE WAGES HAVE NOT
GONE UP AND THE REASON I WAS
AGAINST THE TAX BILL IS NOT
BECAUSE I WAS NOT WILLING TO
VOTE FOR MIDDLE CLASS TAX CUTS.
IT WAS BECAUSE IT SO FAVORED AND
HEAVILY TOWARD THE VERY RICH.
Judy: THE NEXT QUESTION FROM
A MISSOURI VOTER.
KEVIN SMITH FROM CANTON HAS A
QUESTION ABOUT THE BORDER WALL.
BORE DEER SECURITY IS A
VERY -- BORDER SECURITY IS A
VERY IMPORTANT ISSUE TO ME.
AS A RETIRE VETERAN, I THINK
IT'S IMPORTANT TO SECURE OUR
BORDERS.
WILL YOU TONIGHT COMMIT TO
SUPPORT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S EFFORT
TO BID A WALL ON OUR SOUTHERN
BORDER?
McCaskill: I HAVE CERTAIN
VOTED AND WORKED ON A BILL THAT
WOULD HAVE GIVE TREND
$25 MILLION TOWARDS BORDER
SECURITY.
I'VE BEEN TO THE BORDER, I'VE
GONE TO NIGHT FIRST AND GOAL
WITH THE BORDER PATROL AGENTS.
I'VE ASKED THEM WHAT DO WE NEED
TO SECURE THE BORDER AND THEY
SAID THE NUMBER ONE THING THEY
NEEDED WAS TECHNOLOGY.
THE ABILITY TO SEE WHO WAS
COMING AND WHERE.
THEY WERE RELYING ON EQUIPMENT,
FRANKLY, THAT THEY TAPED
TOGETHER TO TRY TO HAVE CLEAR
VISUAL.
NUMBER TWO, LATERAL ACCESS
ROADS.
THERE ARE MANY INSTANCES WHERE
SMUGGLERS ARE COMING ACROSS AND
THEY CAN'T GET TO THEM SAFELY OR
PROTECT THEIR FELLOW BROTHERS
AND SISTERS THAT ARE SECURING
THE BORDER.
AND CERTAINLY MORE PERSONNEL,
AND I HAVE BEEN SOMEBODY WHO HAS
IN FACT WORKED TO SECURE MORE
PERSONNEL ON THE BORDER.
AND MORE BARRIERS IN SOME
PLACES.
BUT, YOU KNOW, YOU'RE DOWN THERE
ON THE BORDER, YOU GO ALONG THE
WALL AND THEN THERE'S THIS BIG
HOLE WHERE THERE'S A PICKUP
TRUCK SITTING.
I SAID WHAT'S UP WITH THAT?
WHY DOES THAT GUY HAVE TO SIT
THERE IN A PICKUP TRUCK?
THEY SAID WELL, THE LITIGATION
OVER THE GOVERNMENT TAKING THE
FARMLAND IS STILL ONGOING AND
IT'S BEEN TEN YEARS, TEN YEARS,
15 YEARS.
IT'S NOT AS EASY AS JUST SAYING
SHINING SEA TO SEA WALL.
SOME PLACES WE DO NEED MORE WALL
AND I'M MORE THAN HAPPY TO
SUPPORT THAT.
ALL THESE THINGS IS WHY THE
BORDER PATROL AGENTS WHO ALSO
ENDORSED PRESIDENT TRUMP HAVE
ENDORSED ME IN THIS SENATE RACE.
Judy: MR. HAWLEY.
Hawley: KEVIN, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH FOR THAT QUESTION.
I THINK YOU SAID YOU'RE A
VETERAN.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE TO
THIS COUNTRY.
I THINK I CAN ANSWER YOUR
QUESTION MORE SIMPLY THAN ALL OF
THAT.
YES IS THE ANSWER.
I SUPPORT A BORDER WALL AND I
WANT SUPPORT THE PRESIDENT
GETTING FUNDING FOR A BORDER
WALL.
SENATOR McCASKILL HAS CALLED THE
WALL EMBARRASSING.
YOU PICK UP THAT A LITTLE, BUT
THAT'S HER WORDS.
SHE HAS MOCKED PRESIDENT TRUMP
FOR WANTING TO BUILD A WALL.
I THINK WE NEED A WALL AND I
THINK WE NEED TO SECURE OUR
BORDER.
IT'S A BASIC RULE OF LAW ISSUE.
I'M A LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENT.
WE NEED TO ACTUALLY ENFORCE THE
LAWS THEREFORE COUNTRY.
NOW -- OF THIS COUNTRY.
NOW THEY HAVE MIGRANT CARRY
CARAVAN COMING TOWARDS THE
BORDER, THOUSANDS BY THE DAY.
THIS COULD BE A DISASTROUS
SITUATION.
WASHINGTON HAS HAD THE CHANCE TO
DO FOR YEARS AND THEY HAVEN'T
DONE IT.
SENATOR McCASKILL HAS VOTED
AGAINST FUNDING FOR THE WALL.
SHE WOULDN'T EVEN AGREE TO THE
PRESIDENT'S DACA PLAN, A VERY
GENEROUS PROPOSAL, BUT WHY?
IT HAD WALL FUNDING IN IT, SO
SHE VOTED AGAINST IT.
WE NEED SOMEBODY WHO IS GOING TO
STAND WITH OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENTS ON THE BORDER, SOMEBODY
NA KNOWS WE NEED TO SECURE THIS
BORDER AND ULTIMATELY IT'S ABOUT
THE SOVEREIGN RIGHTS OF THIS
COUNTRY.
WE DON'T NEED PARTY LINE
LIBERALISM, WE NEED SOMEBODY TO
RESPOND TO THE NEEDS OF THIS
STATE AND I WILL.
Judy: DO YOU HAVE A RESPONSE?
McCaskill: THE BORDER PATROL
AGENTS ON THE BORDER HAVE
ENDORSED ME, NOT ATTORNEY
GENERAL HAWLEY, AND IT IS
BECAUSE OF MY THOUGHTFUL -- AND
IT'S NOT AS SIMPLE AS A
ONE-LINER.
IT'S MORE COMPLICATED THAN THAT.
IT IS NOT -- I MEAN, MOST OF THE
PEOPLE WHO WE ARE HAVING TO DEAL
WITH ON THE BORDER ARE NOT
TRYING TO EVADE, THEY'RE WALKING
UP TO THE PORTS OF ENTRY AND
SAYING WE'RE TURNING OURSELVES
IN.
THE WALL DOESN'T HAVE ANY IMPACT
TO THAT.
THIS IS COMPLICATED AND HARD AND
THAT'S WHY I SAT IN A ROOM FOR
DAYS WITH 15 REPUBLICANS AND 13
DEMOCRATS TRYING TO WORK OUT
COMPROMISES AND WE ALMOST GOT
THERE.
WE GOT TO 58 VOTES.
I'M NOT GOING TO GIVE UP UNTIL
WE GET TO 60 FOR COMPREHENSIVE
IMMIGRATION REFORM THAT INCLUDES
GOOD BORDER SECURITY.
Hawley: I WOULD JUST SAY
THAT, LOOK, SENATOR McCASKILL
HAS BEEN IN WASHINGTON A LONG
TIME, 12 YEARS.
SHE'S BEEN IN POLITICS 36 YEARS.
SHE HAS HAD MANY OPPORTUNITIES
TO STEP FORWARD AND ACROSS THE
PARTY AISLE, WORK ACROSS PARTY
LINES AND GET THIS DONE FOR THE
SECURITY OF THIS COUNTRY AND SHE
HAS NOT DONE IT.
SHE HAS VOTED NO ON WALL
FUNDING.
SHE HAD MOCKED THE IDEA OF IT.
SHE REJECTED A DREAMERS
COMPROMISE PLAN BECAUSE OF WALL
FUNDING AND I'M AFRAID IT'S A
VERY SIMILAR STORY, WHETHER IT'S
HEALTHCARE, PROTECTING MEDICARE,
YOU CAN GO DOWN THE LIST.
SENATOR McCASKILL HAS BEEN IN
OFFICE 12 YEARS IN WASHINGTON.
IT'S JUST THE PARTY LINE OVER
AND OVER AND OVER.
THAT'S NOT WHAT MISSOURI WANTS.
Judy: JUST A QUICK FOLLOW-UP
TO THAT, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
THE REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN WHO
REPRESENTS THE LONGEST STRETCH
OF THE BORDER ON THE SOUTHERN
SIDE IS CONGRESSMAN WILL HURT OF
TEXAS.
HIS COMMENT ON THE WALL, AMONG
OTHERS, HE SAID WHAT WE HAVE TO
REMEMBER IS EVERY MILE OF THE
BORDER IS DIFFERENT FROM EVERY
OTHER MILE.
BUILDING A 30-FOOT-HIGH CONCRETE
STRUCTURE THAT TAKES FOUR HOURS
TO PENETRATE IS THE EQUIVALENT
OF THE BRIDGE TO NOWHERE.
I'M QUOTING HIM.
HE SAID IF YOU DON'T HAVE A
BORDER PATROL TO RESPOND TO
THREATS ON A PHYSICAL STRUCTURE,
THAT PHYSICAL STRUCTURE IS NOT
ACTUALLY A BARRIER.
MY QUESTION TO YOU IS, HERE'S A
FELLOW REPUBLICAN WITH THIS
Hawley: THERE ARE LOTS OF
EXCUSES.
WASHINGTON MAKES EXCUSES ALL THE
TIME, WE'VE HEARD SOME HERE
TONIGHT ABOUT WHY THIS CAN'T
QUITE BE DONE.
SENATOR McCASKILL SAYS WE NEED
TO WAIT UNTIL WE GET HEALTHCARE
REFORM.
THE PEOPLE OF MISSOURI HAVE BEEN
WAITING A AWFULLY LONG TIME.
WHILE YOU'VE BEEN WAITING,
YOU'RE PRICES HAVE GONE THROUGH
THE CEILING.
WHILE YOU'VE BEEN WAITING, THE
DOCTORS PRICES HAVE GONE UP AND
INSURANCE COMPANIES HAVE MADE A
KILLING.
WHILE WE'VE BEEN WAITING,
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS HAVE BEEN
POURING ACROSS THE BORDER,
BRINGING GANGS AND DRUGS AND
VIOLENCE AND PUSHING DOWN WAGES
AS WELL IN THIS STATE AND
ELSEWHERE.
I THINK IT'S ENOUGH WAITING,
ENOUGH EXCUSES, LET'S GET
SOMEONE DONE.
WE NEED SOMEONE WHO'S GOING TO
CROSS PARTY LINES TO DO IT.
McCaskill: LET ME SAY QUICKLY
IN 2000, THERE WERE 1.6 MILLION
PEOPLE APPREHENDED ON THE
BORDER.
1.6 AM UN -- 1.6 MILLION.
LAST YEAR IT'S 300,000.
WE DO NOT HAVE AN INCREASING
PROBLEM.
WE STILL HAVE A PROBLEM, I'M NOT
MINIMIZING IT, BUT THERE ARE FAR
FEWER PEOPLE COMING ACROSS AND
BEING APPREHENDED ILLEGALLY LAST
YEAR THAN THERE WAS A DECADE
AGO.
THE OTHER THING I WOULD JUST SAY
IS BY AN INDEPENDENT GROUP THAT
LOOKS AT VERY VOTE, I AM THE
FIFTH MOST LIKELY MEMBER OF THE
SENATE TO BREAK WITH MY PARTY.
THE FIFTH MOST LIKELY SENATOR TO
BREAK WITH MY PARTY.
THAT'S BECAUSE I LOOK AT EVERY
ISSUE ON ITS MERITS AND NOT ON A
PARTY LINE.
Hawley: DESPITE VOTING WITH
CHUCK SCHUMER 90% OF THE TIME
HOWEVER, SO CHUCK SCHUMER MUST
BE ON THE LIST.
McCaskill: AND PRESIDENT
TRUMP 50% OF THE TIME.
Judy: TIME NOW FOR CLOSING
COMMENTS FROM EACH OF YOU.
SENATOR McCASKILL, YOU'RE FIRST.
McCaskill: I HAVE TRAVELED
THE STATE I LOVE AND I LISTENED.
WE HAVE A LOT OF DIFFERENCES.
THERE'S SO MANY THINGS
MISSOURIANS AGREE ON.
CAMPAIGNS ARE A TIME THAT WE
HIGHLIGHT DIFFERENCES, BUT I
THINK THEY SHOULD ALSO BE A TIME
THAT VOTERS TAKE A HARD LOOK AT
WHICH CANDIDATE CAN DO MORE THAN
CRITICIZE THEIR OPPONENT, WHO
CAN ACTUALLY FIND COMMON GROUND.
I'M VERY PROUD OF WHAT I'VE
GOTTEN DONE IN THE SENATE.
TONIGHT ON MY WEB,
CLAIREMcCASKILL.COM, YOU CAN
FIND 100 ACCOMPLISHMENTS THAT I
HAVE GOTTEN ACROSS THE FINISH
LINE FOR MISSOURIANS.
I DID THAT BY WORKING ACROSS THE
AISLE, LISTENING AND, YES,
SOMETIMES COMPROMISING, WHETHER
IT'S VETERANS BENEFITS OR
BRINGING DOWN THE COST OF
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS, I WILL WORK
WITH ANYONE ANYTIME TO MAKE
THINGS BETTER.
CAN I BE PUSHY?
YES.
OBNOXIOUS SOMETIMES?
YEAH, MAYBE, BUT I WILL ROLL UP
MY SLEEVES, BE INDEPENDENT AND
WORK AS HARD AS I KNOW HOW FOR
THE FAMILIES OF MISSOURI ALL DAY
LONG.
I WOULD BE HONORED TO HAVE YOUR
Judy: MR. HAWLEY.
Hawley: THANK YOU SO MUCH AND
THANK YOU AGAIN FOR HAVING US
TONIGHT.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I
RESPECT SENATOR McCASKILL'S
SERVICE, AS I SAID EARLIER.
I RESPECT HER YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE STATE AND TO THIS
COUNTRY.
THE TRUTH OF THE MATTER IS, IT'S
JUST NOT WORKING ANYMORE.
SENATOR McCASKILL HAS BEEN IN
POLITICS FOR 36 YEARS.
SHE'S BEEN IN WASHINGTON FOR 12
YEARS AND OVER THAT TIME, SHE
HAS BECOME A PARTY LINE
POLITICIAN.
SHE SAID THAT SHE'D BE
INDEPENDENT, SHE SAID SHE WOULD
BE BIPARTISAN, BUT SHE HASN'T
BEEN.
WHETHER IT'S BORDER SECURITY OR
HEALTHCARE, WHETHER IT'S PUTTING
PRO CONSTITUTION JUDGES ON THE
BENCH, EVERY PRIORITY THAT THIS
STATE HAS SAID IS AT THE TOP OF
THEIR LIST, WHETHER IT WHAT 2016
OR EARLIER, SENATOR McCASKILL
HAS VOTED AGAINST AND HERE'S
WHAT I THINK WE NEED.
IT'S TIME WE HAD SOMEONE IN
WASHINGTON WHO ISN'T PART OF THE
OLD BATTLES, WHO DOESN'T OWE
ANYTHING TO ANYBODY, BUT WHO IS
GOING TO GO AND WREN THE PEOPLE
THEREFORE STATE WHO WILL STAND
WITH THE PEOPLE OF THIS STATE
EVERY SINGLE TIME, WHO'S PROUD
OF OUR WAY OF LIFE, WHO KNOWS
IT, WHO LOVES IT AND WILL
REPRESENT IT.
I ASK FOR YOUR VOTE.
Judy: THANK YOU, MR. HAWLEY.
I WANT TO THANK YOU BOTH OF THE
CANDIDATES, THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL, JOSH HAWLEY, SENATOR
CLAIRE McCASKILL.
THANKS TO ALL OUR
PARTICIPANTSING MIKE BUSH, JO
MANNIES, OUR LIVE AUDIENCE HERE
IN ST. LOUIS.
DON'T FORGET TO VOTE.
ELECTION DAY IS NOVEMBER THE
6th, THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
[ APPLAUSE ]CAPTIONING PROVIDED BY
CAPTION ASSOCIATES, LLC
www.captionassociates.com
THE DEBATE BETWEEN THE
CANDIDATES FOR U.S. SENATOR FROM
MISSOURI HAS JUST WRAPPED UP.
THE INCUMBENT, SENATOR
McCASKILL, AND CHALLENGER JOSH
HAWLEY FIELD ADD NUMBER OF
QUESTIONS IN FRONT OF A DIVERSE
AUDIENCE OF 100 MISSOURI VOTERS.
THEY WILL BE EXITING SHORTLY,
ALL OF THE AUDIENCE, INTO THE
PUBLIC MEDIA COMMONS WHERE THERE
HAS BEEN A WATCH PARTY IN
PROGRESS SINCE EARLIER THIS
EVENING.
THAT'S WHERE 5 ON YOUR SIDE'S
CASEY NOLEN IS STANDING BY.
WHAT'S THE ATMOSPHERE THERE?
IT'S PHYSICALLY CROWDED,
EXCITED.
THAT WAS A FAST HOUR FROM OUR
PERSPECTIVE OUT HERE.
RUTH, WE APPRECIATE YOUR HELP
FROM THE INSIDE.
NOW JOINING US OUTSIDE IN THE
PUBLIC MEDIA COMMONS, SAMUEL
KEAN FROM KCUR, AND ALSO ANITA
MANION FROM UNIVERSITY OF
MISSOURI ST. LOUIS.
THANKS TO THE FOLKS IN THE
CROWD.
ROAMING AROUND IN THE CROWD IS
OUR RECOVERING REPORTER AND
POLITICAL SPECIALIST HERE IN
ST. LOUIS, JASON ROSENBAUM FROM
ST. LOUIS PUBLIC RADIO, SO BE
WARNED THOSE OF YOU IN THE
CROWD, JASON ANYWAY SNAG YOU FOR
AN INTERVIEW.
THANKS TO THOSE OF YOU STAYING
ON THE AIR HERE IN ST. LOUIS AND
AROUND THE STATE, ON PUBLIC
TELEVISION, PUBLIC RADIO AND
HERE IN ST. LOUIS, WE'RE COMING
TO YOU ON THE 5 ON YOUR SIDE
FACEBOOK PAGE.
WOULD YOU AGREE WITH ME THAT IT
WAS A FAST HOUR WILLIAM WE
HAVEN'T TALKED BECAUSE WE'VE ALL
BEEN WATCHING.
I'M INTERESTED MYSELF TO GET
YOUR FIRST IMPRESSIONS.
I'LL JUST START WITH YOU, DEE.
I DEFINITELY THINK IT WAS A
FAST HOUR.
THEY WENT STRAIGHT TO THE
JUGULAR, TO LACK OF A BETTER
TERM.
THEY TALKED ABOUT HEALTHCARE,
THE WALL, PROP A, WHICH I
EXPECTED MORE FIREWORKS ON, BUT
THE HOUR DID GO BY BAS.
DEFINITELY JOSH HAWLEY BEING
AT ATTACK AS HE HAS BEEN
THROUGHOUT THE CAMPAIGN,
SPEAKING OF A PERSON WHO IS
CHALLENGING AN INCUMBENT AND WE
SAW THAT TONIGHT, BUT WE ALSO
SAW SENATOR McCASKILL AS A
VETERAN CAMPAIGNER AND SHE
SHOWED THAT DURING THE DEBATE
TONIGHT AS WELL.
YEAH, JOSH HAWLEY CAME OUT
SWINGING, IMMEDIATELY TALKING
ABOUT THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
AND HIS FIRST STATEMENT AND
HEALTHCARE AND FARMERS WERE A
BIG THEME TONIGHT, WHICH IS NOT
SURPRISING WHEN YOU'RE TRYING TO
WIN A STATEWIDE RACE IN
MISSOURI.
I FELT LIKE, ANOTHER ANTHEM I
WAS PICKING UP ON, THE ONE
PERSON THAT NOBODY IN THE ROOM
WANTED TO BE ASSOCIATED WITH WAS
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY AT LARGE.
MR. HAWLEY, I THINK WE WERE
KEEPING TRACK, ANITA, YOU WERE,
SEVERAL TIMES USED THE PHRASE
"PARTY LINE," AND WE HEARD
SENATOR McCASKILL SAY TWO OR
THREE TIMES THAT SHE HAS AT
TIMES SIDED WITH PRESIDENT
TRUMP.
SHE SAID AT THE END, 50% OF THE
TIME.
DID YOU PICK UP ON THAT?
THE MOST PHRASES BY JOSH
HAWLEY WERE PARTY LINE LIBERAL,
AND FOR CLAIRE McCASKILL, TRYING
TO IDENTIFY HERSELF AS
INDEPENDENT, THAT SHE'S WILLING
TO PROMISE, COMPLIMENT PRESIDENT
TRUMP, SHE VOTED WITH HIM, BUT
ALSO WILLING TO STAND TO HIM.
I THINK THOSE WERE DEFINITE
POINTS THEY WERE TRYING TO GET
BEFORE WE GO ON, LET'S GET TO
ONE OF HIGHLIGHTS IF WE CAN USE
A SPORT OF METAPHOR.
LET'S ROLL TAPE ON ONE OF THE
EARLIER MOMENTS IN THE DEBATE
WHEN THEY KIND OF HAD A LITTLE
BIT OF A TUSSLE BACK AND FORTH.
McCaskill: THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY LOVES TO TALK ABOUT DEBT
AND DEFICIT UNTIL THEY'RE THIS
CHARGE AND THEN IT'S CRICKETS.
IT'S ABSOLUTELY CRICKETS.
SO YES, WE'VE GOT TO LOOK AT ALL
OF IT.
NO CUTS TO SOCIAL SECURITY, NO
CUTS TO MEDICARE, AS I SAID,
JOSH HAWLEY IS PROPOSING CUTS TO
MEDICARE BY HIS LAWSUIT.
Judy: NEXT.
Hawley: I HAVE TO RESPOND TO
THAT BECAUSE IT'S FLATLY FALSE.
ONLY ONE PERSON ON THE STAGE HAS
VOTED TO CUT MEDICARE SPENDING
AND IT'S SENATOR McCASKILL AND
YOU CAN LOOK IT UP.
SHE CAN CHARACTERIZE IT AND PUT
AS MUCH LIPSTICK ON IT AS SHE
WANTS, BUT THE TRUTH IS, SHE
VOTED TO CUT $716 BILLION FROM
MEDICARE TO PAY FOR OBAMACARE.
OKAY, SO A LOT TO UNPACK
THERE, IF YOU WILL.
YOUR REACTION WHEN YOU HEARD
THAT.
WE'LL START AGAIN WITH YOU.
IT SEEMED TO BE A DISCUSSION
ABOUT SEMANTICS, RIGHT?
JOSH HAWLEY KEPT GOING BACK TO
CLAIRE McCASKILL WON'T SUPPORT
ANYTHING UNLESS IT'S OBAMACARE.
BUT SHE KEPT GOING BACK TO THE
FACT THAT HE WANTS TO TEAR THIS
ENTIRE THING DOWN AND THERE'S NO
FAILSAFE.
THERE IS NO PLAN, AND I THINK
THAT PEOPLE AT HOME, PEOPLE WHO
ARE VOTING CAN SEE THE
REPUBLICANS COMPLAINED FOR A
VERY LONG TIME ABOUT THE ACA AND
THEY COULD HAVE PASSED IT
STRICTLY WITH THE PARTY, BUT
THEY COULDN'T GET IT DONE.
MEDICARE VOTE, I WAS DOING
SOME FACT CHECKING OR TRYING TO
ON THE FLY BECAUSE STUFF WAS
FLYING, BUT ONE OF THE THINS
ABOUT THAT $716 MILLION FIGURE,
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT'S THROWN
OUT SINCE THE 2012 PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN AND PACK CHECKING
GROUPS LIKE POLITIFACT,
SPECIFICALLY, THIS HAS COME UP
IN FLORIDA'S SENATE RACE AS
WELL, THEY SAID THAT REALLY
WASN'T TRUE IN TERMS OF THAT
VOTE REDUCING MEDICARE.
IT WAS AIMED AT CURBING
HEALTHCARE COSTS OVERALL, AIMED
AT THE INSURANCE COMPANIES, NOT
BENEFICIARIES, BUT THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT'S BEEN AROUND FOR
A WHILE AND IT'S COMING BACK IN
THIS RACE AS WELL.
JUST BRIEFLY, THERE WAS A
TIME, AND I BELIEVE IT WAS '08
WHEN LIPSTICK WAS A RALLYING
CRY.
HOW DOES IT PLAY IN TODAY'S
MEDIA CYCLE?
I WOULD SAY WHEN JOSH HAWLEY
SAID YOU CAN PUT AS MUCH
LIPSTICK ON IT AS YOU WANT, I
KNOW THAT GOES BACK TO THE
PREVIOUS CYCLE OF PUTTING
LIPSTICK ON A PIG.
I THINK SAYING THAT TO A WOMAN
IN A DEBATE SORT OF PERKED MY
EARS UP.
I DON'T KNOW HOW OTHER WOMEN
MIGHT HAVE RECEIVED THAT, THE
IDEA OF, YOU KNOW, PUTTING
LIPSTICK ON IT.
AND AS WE'VE TALKED BEFORE,
THE FEMALE VOTE IS BY NO MEANS A
MONOLITH, SO IT WILL PLAY
DIFFERENTLY WITH DIFFERENT
WOMEN.
LET'S GO OUT TO THE CROWD.
JASON, WHO DO YOU HAVE WITH US?
I'M HERE WITH FRANK FROM
KIRKWOOD, MISSOURI.
HE WAS OUT HERE AT THE PUBLIC
MEDIA COMMONS.
I'LL JUST ASK A VERY SIMPLE
QUESTION.
WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THE DEBATE
AND HOW DO YOU THINK THE
CANDIDATES DID?
I THINK THEY DID A GREAT JOB.
THEY COVERED A LOT OF GROUND
FROM THE HEALTHCARE, THE
PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS, THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, THE TAXES,
THE ECONOMY, THE TARIFFS, WHAT'S
GOOD FOR MISSOURI, WHAT'S GOOD
FOR THE FARMERS.
BOY, THEY COVERED A LOT OF
STUFF.
I DON'T KNOW WHO WON.
I THINK THERE WERE PROS AND CONS
ON BOTH SIDES.
I THINK THEY MADE SOME GOOD
POINTS ON EITHER SIDE.
I LIKE CLAIRE SAYING, YOU KNOW,
SHE SUPPORTED -- SHE
COMPLIMENTED TRUMP ON SOME
THINGS AND REACH ACROSS THE
AISLE.
I THINK SHE SCORED ON THAT ONE.
I THINK JOSH ALSO SCORED ON SOME
OF THE STUFF -- ON SOME OF
CLAIRE'S VOTES ABOUT VOTING
AGAINST THE TAX CUTS THAT
OBVIOUSLY HAVE BEEN GOOD FOR THE
ECONOMY.
I READ THE WALL STREET JOURNAL A
LOT AND, YOU KNOW, THEY WRITE A
LOT ABOUT HOW PAY IS GOING UP.
THAT'S WHY THE FED IS RAISING
INTEREST RATES, THEY'RE WORRIED
BIN NATION BECAUSE WAGES ARE
GOING UP.
I THINK THERE WERE PROS AND CONS
ON BOTH SIDE OF THE AISLE.
HEALTHCARE HAS BECOME A
PREEMINENT ISSUE IN THIS
CAMPAIGN.
HOW DID YOU FEEL BOTH CANDIDATES
ANSWERED THE QUESTIONS ABOUT
HEALTHCARE, PARTICULARLY
PROTECTING PRE-EXISTING
CONDITIONS?
WELL, I THINK THE, YOU KNOW,
WHERE CLAIRE WAS -- SHE WAS
TALKING ABOUT, YOU KNOW, JOSH
KIND OF HIT HER WITH THE
INCREASED COSTS ON MEDICARE AS A
RESULT OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT, BUT THEN SHE CAME BACK AND
SAID WE CLOSED THE DONUT HOLE.
DONUT HOLE AS BIG ISSUE,
ESPECIALLY FOR A LOT OF SENIORS
ON FIXED INCOMES.
WHERE JOSH CAME IN WAS, HEY,
THERE'S A LOT OF DIFFERENT WAYS,
YOU KNOW, WE DON'T NEED A ONE
SIZE FIT ALL FEDERAL PROGRAM TO
ADDRESS PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS.
I THINK JOSH HAS A LOT OF GOOD
IDEAS, BUT CLAIRE COUNTERED HIS
IDEAS ARE JUST THAT.
THEY'RE IDEAS ON PAPER.
THEY DON'T HAVE A FIRM POLICY
YET, SO MAYBE IT MIGHT BE
PREMATURE TO HAVE A LAWSUIT
AGAINST THAT.
SO THAT WAS KIND OF GOODING
ABOUT BACK AND FORTH THERE.
DID YOU MAKE A DECISION ABOUT
HOW YOU'RE GOING TO VOTE AFTER
THIS DEBATE?
I'M NOT GOING TO SAY THAT IN
FRONT OF THE CAMERA.
THAT'S FAIR.
I DON'T WANT ANYBODY COMING
AFTER ME, BUT NO, I THINK IT'S A
GOOD INFORMATION FOR EVERYBODY
HERE.
SO I THINK I STILL GOT TO DO
MORE RESEARCH.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME, SIR.
I REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
CASEY, BACK TO YOU.
JASON, BEFORE YOU GO,
SPEAKING OF HEALTHCARE, I KNOW
FROM YOUR REPORTING, YOU'VE BEEN
TALKING TO FOLKS THAT THIS IS A
NUMBER ONE ISSUE.
FOR INSTANCE, IN JEFFERSON
COUNTY, THAT'S A SUBURB SOUTH OF
ST. LOUIS THAT WENT HEAVILY FOR
DONALD TRUMP, BUT ALSO JUST
REJECTED RIGHT-TO-WORK, SO I'M
JUST CURIOUS, DID YOU HEAR
ANYTHING NEW ON HEALTHCARE
TONIGHT THAT YOU HAVEN'T HEARD
BEFORE FROM THESE TWO?
I WOULD SAY THAT THE RHETORIC
WE HEARD FROM BOTH CANDIDATES
HAS BEEN REPLICATED THROUGHOUT
THE CAMPAIGN SO FAR FROM BOTH
SENATOR McCASKILL AND ATTORNEY
GENERAL HAWLEY.
SENATOR McCASKILL HAS MADE
HEALTHCARE THE ESSENTIAL FOCUS
OF HER CAMPAIGN AND HAMMERED
ATTORNEY GENERAL HAWLEY FOR
BEING PART OF THAT LAWSUIT.
I DON'T THINK SHE HAS NO CHOICE.
SHE CAN'T RUN A CAMPAIGN SAYING
JOSH HAWLEY IS GOING TO RUN WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP 100% OF THE TIME
BECAUSE THIS IS A STATE WHERE
DONALD TRUMP STILL HAS AROUND A
50% APPROVAL RATING, SO IT
PLACED HAWLEY ON THE DEFENSIVE,
BUT AS YOU SAW AT THE BEGINNING
OF THE DEBATE, HAUL BY WENT ON
THE OFFENSIVE -- HAWLEY WENT ON
THE OFFENSIVE ON HEALTHCARE AND
IT COULD BE TOUGHER FOR KEY
BATTLE GROUNDS OF THE STATE.
WE'LL CHECK BACK WITH YOU IN
A MINUTE.
HEALTHCARE DID SEEM TO DOMINATE
A LOT OF AIR TIME TONIGHT.
ANITA, IS THAT GOING TO BE A
DECIDING ISSUE?
IT'S POLLING NUMBER ONE ISSUE
IN MISSOURI AND IT'S ONE OF THE
NUMBER ONE ISSUES THAT DEMOCRATS
ARE FOCUSING ON NATIONWIDE.
SO YOU PROBABLY HAVE SEEN THE
REPORTS, TOO, THAT THIS IS ONE
CONSISTENT AREA THAT DEMOCRATS
HAVE RALLIED AROUND.
THEY KNOW -- IT'S INTERESTING TO
ME BECAUSE IN 2010 AND IN 2012
AND '14, THESE WERE NOT POPULAR
ISSUES FOR DEMOCRATS.
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT ISSUE WAS
SOMETHING THEY TRIED TO STEER
AWAY FROM, BUT NOW AS PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN AFRAID OF LOSING IT,
IT'S BECOME MUCH MORE POPULAR
AND AS THEY REALIZE WHAT THE
PROVISIONS ACTUALLY ARE UNDER
OBAMACARE.
BUT PREMIUMS HAVE GONE UP, IS
THAT A LIABILITY?
YES, FORUMS HAVE GONE UP,
ESPECIALLY ON THE -- PREMIUMS
HAVE GONE UP, ESPECIALLY ON THE
EXCHANGE IN NOW, AND THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT SENATOR McCASKILL
IS GOING TO HAVE TO ANSWER AND
DEAL WITH.
BUT THIS IS A REAL DISTINCTION
BETWEEN THE TWO WHEN IT COMES IN
THIS ISSUE OF HEALTHCARE AND THE
LAWSUIT THAT KEEPS COMING UP AND
WE'LL SEE WHAT HAPPENS WITH THAT
IN COURT, THAT JOSH HAWLEY
JOINED WITH SEVERAL OTHER
REPUBLICAN ATTORNEYS GENERAL
ACROSS THE COUNTRY ON
PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS.
IT WILL BE INTERESTING TO SEE
THE TIMING OF THAT IF THAT
LAWSUIT TENDS TO HAPPEN BEFORE
CONGRESS -- THERE'S A DECISION
ON THAT LAWSUIT BEFORE CONGRESS
PUT AND REPLACEMENT IN PLACE IF
THE REPUBLICANS ARE STILL IN
CONTROL.
THAT CAN HAVE A MAJOR EFFECT, SO
THAT'S GOING TO BE A BIG ISSUE
GOING FORWARD NO MATTER WHO WINS
THIS RACE.
DID YOU HEAR ANYTHING
DIFFERENT ON THAT?
THE LAWSUIT IS THE CENTERPIECE
OF COMMERCIALS.
WAS MR. HAWLEY ABLE TO CHANGE
THE NARRATIVE?
I DON'T THINK I HEARD
ANYTHING DIFFERENT BECAUSE HE'S
MAINTAINING YOU DON'T NEED THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT TO PROTECT
PEOPLE WITH PRE-EXISTING
CONDITIONS.
WHAT YOU NEED AS REPLACEMENT.
THERE'S SOME QUESTIONS ABOUT HIS
PLAN, THE PLAN HE PROPOSED IN
THE OP-ED IN THE SPRINGFIELD
NEWSPAPER, WHETHER THAT WILL
INDEED HELP IT.
SOME ECONOMISTS SAY IT WOULDN'T
HELP THE ISSUE.
THAT'S GOING THAT'S GOING TO
HAVE TO BE SORTED OUT, BUT HE
WAS PRETTY CONSISTENT ON THAT
POINT.
HE FEELS HE'S CONSISTENT BECAUSE
EVEN THOUGH HE'S OPPOSING THE
ACA IN COURT, HE SAYS HE WANTS
TO KEEP THE PROTECTS IN PLACE
FOR CONSUMERS.
HE TOLD US HE HAS A PERSONAL
REASON FOR TAKING THAT ISSUE
AND I THOUGHT IT WAS
INTERESTING THAT CLAIRE
McCASKILL CAME OUT AND APOLOGIZE
AND SAID, LOOK, I IN NO WAY
MEANT TO INSULT YOU OR YOUR
FAMILY.
BUT HERE THE THINGS ABOUT THE
ACA.
WHEN IT WAS ENACTED, IT'S LIKE A
SPIDER, SO THERE'S ALL THESE
LITTLE LEGS AND PARTS OF IT THAT
EVEN PEOPLE THAT VEHEMENTLY
OPPOSED OBAMACARE, THERE'S
LITTLE BENEFITS, WHETHER IT'S
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS OR
PRE-EXISTING, IT'S GOING TO BE A
TOUGH LAW TO THROW OUT.
YOU MENTIONED FACT CHECKING.
LET'S GO TO SOCIAL MEDIA.
IF YOU'D LIKE TO GET ON THIS
CONVERSATION, WE'RE TRYING TO
TRACK THE HASHTAG THAT SEEMS TO
BE POPULAR AND THAT'S #MO!$!!
#MOSENATEDEBATE.
ONE PERSON SAID JOSH'S CAMPAIGN
HAS LITTLE CONNECTION WITH THE
TRUTH.
DID YOU FIND WHETHER THERE WAS
ENOUGH SAID BY EITHER CANDIDATE
WHETHER THEY DID IN FACT HAVE A
TORTURED RELATIONSHIP.
WHAT DID YOU SEE WITH THE PACK
CHECKING?
I THINK WHEN YOU HAVE A
DEBATE, BOTH SIDES ARE GOING TO
EMBELLISH CERTAIN THINGS THEY
SAY, BUT IT DOES APPEAR -- I
WOULD HAVE TO GO BACK AND LISTEN
TO EVERYTHING AGAIN, BUT THERE
ARE SOME THINGS, PARTICULARLY
THE MEDICARE VOTE.
THAT MIGHT BE A BIT OF AN
EXAGGERATION THERE AND CERTAINLY
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT SENATOR
McCASKILL HAS TALKED ABOUT IN
TERMS OF THE GUN ISSUE.
SHE HAS SORT OF VOTED FOR SOME
OF THOSE THINGS.
SO I HESITATE TO MAKE A
DEFINITIVE JUDGMENT ON THAT,
CASEY, BUT I THINK THERE WERE
SOME THINGS THERE THAT
DEFINITELY NEED TO BE FACT CHECK
ON JOSH HAWLEY'S SIDE AND
PERHAPS EVEN ON SENATOR
McCASKILL'S SIDE AS WELL.
I WOULD SAY WHEN SENATOR MFL
SAID THAT AND THE -- SENATOR
McCASKILL SAID THAT AND THE
AUDIENCES REACTION AND I THINK
WHAT SHE WAS HOPING FOR WAS
IMPLICATING PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS
A DIFFICULT RELATION TO THE
TRUTH AND TRYING TO TIE JOSH
HAWLEY TO THAT.
A LOT OF HER THEME WAS JOSH
HAWLEY SAYS HE DOESN'T DISAGREE
WITH ANYTHING DONALD TRUMP DOES
AND REALLY TRYING TO KEEP THAT
THREAD GOING THROUGHOUT THE
NIGHT.
AT THE SAME TIME, MAKING SURE
EVERYONE KNOWS THAT SHE
SOMETIMES AGREES WITH MR. TRUMP
AS WELL.
YES, SHE WAS VERY NICE.
I THOUGHT THE DEBATE WAS VERY
POLITE.
IT'S HOPING FOR MORE FIREWORKS
PERSONALLY, BUT I DON'T THINK
EITHER CANDIDATE DEVIATED OFF
THE STANDARD TALKING POINTS
WE'VE ALREADY HEARD.
CASEY, YOU MENTIONED EVERYBODY
NOTICED JOSH HAWLEY WALKING OUT
AND ENGAGING WITH THE AUDIENCE,
BUT CLAIRE DIDN'T.
YOU TALK ABOUT THE FACT THAT
CLAIRE, MOST PEOPLE KNOW SHE'S A
BIT VERTICALLY CHALLENGED, SO
SHE HAD A PLATFORM.
I'M SORRY, I'M TOLD THAT WAS
WRONG.
I GAVE YOU BAD INFORMATION.
NO, I APOLOGIZE.
EARLIER WHEN THEY WERE TESTING
THINGS OUT, THERE WAS A LITTLE
BIT OF A STOOL.
I WAS TOLD IN THE LAST COUPLE
MINUTES THAT SHE JUST CHOSE, I'M
TOLD, TO NOT STEP OUT.
BUT I SAW ON SOCIAL MEDIA AS
WELL THAT THAT SEEMED FORMULAIC.
OF COURSE, THEY MAY NOT BE A FAN
OF MR. HAWLEY, BUT EVERYTHING IS
PARSED WHEN YOU MAKE DECISIONS
IN THESE SITUATIONS.
THERE'S A LOT OF STAGING WHEN
IT COMES TO DEBATES AND A LOT OF
SORT FORMATS AND WHERE PEOPLE
ARE GOING TO STAND AND WHERE
THEY'RE GOING TO WALK AND WHAT
YOU'RE GOING TO DO, AND SOMEONE
LIKE SENATOR McCASKILL WHO HAS
RUN THESE CAMPAIGNS BEFORE, SHE
CERTAINLY HAS HER WAY OF DOING
THINGS.
WE SAW A LITTLE BIT OF THAT
TONIGHT AS WELL.
LET'S GO BACK TO THE CROWD.
JASON STANDING BY AGAIN.
JASON, CATCH US UP WITH WHERE
YOU ARE AND WHOM YOU'VE FOUND.
I'M HERE RIGHT NOW WITH
TIYELLE, HE WAS ONE OF THE
PEOPLE THAT SKZ ASKED A
QUESTIONS I WAS HEART TENNED
THAT YOU ASKED THE QUESTION
ABOUT BRIDGING THE GAP BETWEEN
POLICE OFFICERS AND AFRICAN
AMERICANS.
THAT WAS A QUESTION CONSPICUOUS!$!!!!!!!!!!
CONSPICUOUSLY ABSENT IN 2006
WITH THE PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE.
DID YOU FEEL THAT THE CANDIDATES
ANSWERED YOUR QUESTION TO YOUR
SATISFACTION?
IN MY OPINION, THE CANDIDATES
DANCED AROUND.
I ASKED THEM IF THEY HAD ANY
LEGISLATION IN MIND THAT DIDN'T
INCLUDE INCREASING LAW
ENFORCEMENT.
I THINK THAT THREW THEM FOR A
LOOP.
THEY BOTH TALK ABOUT THINGS DONE
IN THE PAST AS FAR AS COLLECTING
DATA ON RACIAL PROFILING AND
THINGS OF THAT NATURE, BUT THOSE
AREN'T THINGS THAT GO INTO
STOPPING THE ISSUE, THAT GO INTO
ACTUALLY FIXING THE PROBLEM.
TALK ABOUT COMMUNITY POLICING,
I'M NOT SURE WHAT COMMUNITY
POLICING REALLY IS, BUT I KNOW
THAT IT HASN'T HAD AN EFFECT OR
DEFINITELY NOT A POSITIVE EFFECT
ON OUR COMMUNITY.
IT'S BEEN FOUR YEARS SINCE
MICHAEL BROWN'S SHOOTING DEATH.
DO YOU FEEL THAT MISSOURI
POLITICAL LEADERS LIKE CLAIRE
McCASKILL AND JOSH HAWLEY ARE
TAKING THE ISSUE OF POLICE
ACCOUNTABILITY AND BRIDGING THE
DIVIDE BETWEEN AFRICAN AMERICANS
AND LAW ENFORCEMENT SERIOUSLY?
DO YOU FEEL LIKE THINGS CAN BE
DONE AT A FEDERAL LEVEL OR IS IT
MORE OF A LOCAL LEVEL ISSUE?
I THINK IT HAS TO BE LOCAL
AND FEDERAL.
I DON'T THINK THEY'RE TAKING THE
ISSUE SERIOUSLY.
I THINK THAT AS AFRICAN
AMERICANS IN A PRETTY TOUGH
COMMUNITY AND A TOUGH
NEIGHBORHOOD, WE'RE BEING
GROUPED IN TOGETHER AND BEING
DEMONIZED AND HUNG OUT TO DRY.
WE WANT TO BE SAFE, WE WANT TO
LIVE OUR LIFE SAFELY.
WE WANT TO GO AND WORK AND WE
WANT TO BE PRODUCTIVE MEMBERS OF
SOCIETY, SO IT'S KIND OF HARD TO
DO THAT LOOKING OVER YOUR
DID YOU FEEL LIKE YOUR MIND
ABOUT WHO YOU'RE GOING TO VOTE
FOR WAS CHANGED BY THIS DEBATE
OR HOW THEY ANSWERED YOUR
QUESTION?
NO, I'M STILL GOING TO DO A
LITTLE BIT MORE RESEARCH TO GET
A BIT MORE INFORMED ON BOTH OF
THEIR BACKGROUNDS AND FACT CHECK
WHAT THEY SAID IN HERE.
I DO FEEL LIKE ATTORNEY GENERAL
HAWLEY CAMPAIGNED TO ME A LOT.
I FEEL LIKE CLAIRE ANSWERED MORE
QUESTIONS AND HE WAS
CAMPAIGNING.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, SIR, AND
I REALLY PRECIOUS -- APPRECIATE
YOUR TIME AND YOUR QUESTION.
CASEY, BACK TO YOU.
JASON, THANK YOU.
SOME OF THE SENTIMENTS THERE,
NOTWITHSTANDING THE VERY SERIOUS
ISSUES HE WAS TALKING ABOUT, HE
FELLS LIKE HE GOT A PAT ANSWER
TO HIS QUESTION THAT WE'VE HEARD
BEFORE.
COMMUNITY POLICING, WHAT IS
THAT?
WE HEAR THAT A LOT, BUT TAME,
IT'S HARD TO TACKLE A NUANCED
ISSUE IN A DEBATE WHEN YOU'RE
TALKING IN SOUNDBITES.
WHEN YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
POLICE COMMUNITY RELATIONS,
ESPECIALLY IN THE AFRICAN
AMERICAN COMMUNITY, TO GET
POLITICAL FOR A MOMENT, CLAIRE
McCASKILL WOULD NEED BIG
TURNOUTS FROM THE AFRICAN
AMERICAN COMMUNITY IN ST. LOUIS
AND KANSAS CITY AND SOME OF THE
OTHER AREAS OF THE STATE TO WIN
ON ELECTION DAY, AND THERE HAS
BEEN SOME TALK THROUGHOUT THE
SEASON HERE ABOUT HOW SHE'S
DOING IN THOSE COMMUNITIES AND
IS SHE GOING TO REALLY GET THE
TURNOUT THAT SHE NEEDS.
SO I THOUGHT THOSE WERE A COUPLE
OF CRITICAL MOMENTS ABOUT THE
VIOLENCE QUESTION AND HIS
QUESTION ABOUT COMMUNITY
POLICING IN TERMS OF ANSWERING
SOME OF THOSE CONCERNS THAT
PEOPLE IN THE AFRICAN AMERICAN
COMMUNITY IN MISSOURI HAVE HAD
ABOUT CLAIRE McCASKILL
THROUGHOUT THIS CAMPAIGN.
AND I THINK WHEN HE SIGNALED
TO THE FACT THAT HE DIDN'T
REALLY GET AN ANSWER, I THINK A
LOT OF IT HAS TO DO WITH THIS IS
NOT AN ISSUE THAT EITHER ONE OF
THEM HAS NECESSARILY BEEN
VISIBLE AND OUT FRONT ON, SO
WHEN YOU GET A CANDIDATE OFF
THEIR TALKING POINTS, SOMETIMES
THEY TEND TO STRUGGLE AND LET'S
BE HONEST.
RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN
COMMUNITIES, WHETHER THEY'RE
MINORITY COMMUNITIES OR LOWER
INCOME COMMUNITIES AND THE
POLICE ARE STRAINED AND THERE'S
NO SIMPLE ANSWER FOR THAT TO
YOUR POINT AND TO EASY WAY TO
GET A QUICK SOUND BITE.
YOU MENTIONED THE
OH YEAH, LET'S GET INTO IT.
WELL, TAKE IT AWAY.
I JUST -- YOU KNOW, CAMPAIGN
SEASON, YOU KNOW WHAT YOU'RE
GOING TO HEAR.
A BUNCH OF ATTACKS, THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO DO THIS FOR YOU, WHERE
HAS SHE BEEN, WHAT IS HE DOING?
I WAS JUST WAITING FOR, YOU
KNOW, A LITTLE MORE DIRECT
IMPACT.
YOU KNOW, I FELT LIKE WE WERE
WATCHING A BOXING MATCH AND
THERE WAS A LOT OF SHADOW BOXES,
BUT VERY FEW DIRECT HITS IN MY
WELL, ESPECIALLY COMPARED TO
THE ADS WE'RE SEEING.
RIGHT, RIGHT.
YOU WRAP UP ALL THE RHETORIC AND
WE GET HERE AND IT'S LIKE, YOUR
FAMILY IS LOVELY.
ALTHOUGH I WILL SAY, WHEN
SENATOR McCASKILL APOLOGIZED
ABOUT THE FAMILY THING AND
TALKING ABOUT THE FAMILY, SHE
SAID I DON'T ATTACK FAMILIES,
BUT OTHER PEOPLE DO, I THINK IN
REFERENCE TO SOME OF THE ADS
AGAINST HER HUSBAND.
YEAH, DEFINITELY SOME JABS
THERE, BUT YOU CAN TELL THAT THE
TENSION THERE IS.
THAT CAMPAIGN HAS BEEN PERSONAL
OVER THE PAST FEW WEEKS HERE AND
AS WE GET CLOSER TO ELECTION
DAY, THEY'VE INTERACTED WITH
EACH OTHER.
YOU'VE SEEN THE CAMPAIGN ADS, SO
IT WAS INTERESTING THAT WE
DIDN'T HEAR ABOUT MORE OF SOME
OF THESE, MAYBE NOT MINOR
ISSUES, BUT SOME OF THESE
EXTRACURRICULAR ISSUES THAT
AREN'T ABOUT SUBSTANCE TONIGHT.
THIS REALLY WAS A SUBSTANTIVE
DEBATE AND I THINK IT'S A CREDIT
TO THE PANELISTS AND ALSO THE
VOTER QUESTIONS THAT WE HAD AS
OKAY, SPEAKING OF QUESTIONS
FROM VOTERS, THIS IS KATHY RYAN
ON SOCIAL MEDIA ON TWITTER.
THIS RACE IS GOING TO COME DOWN
TO VOTER PARTICIPATION, YOUTH,
COLLEGE VOTE WILL BE HUGE IN
THIS STATE.
YOU WORK FIRST HAND WITH OUR
YOUTH COLLEGE VOTE.
AND ANYONE WHO'S IN MY CLASS
WILL TELL YOU, MY MANTRA FROM
START TO FINISH IS VOTE, VOTE IN
EVERY ELECTION, HAVE YOUR VOICE
HEARD, PARTICIPATE IN OTHER
WAYS.
I WOULD SAY THAT TO EVERYONE IN
OUR STATE.
OUR VOTER TURNOUT IN 2014 WAS
35%.
THAT'S VOTER TURNOUT MIDTERM
ELECTIONS.
SO I WOULD SAY TO EVERYONE, NO
MATTER HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT THE
BALLOT INITIATIVES, THE
SENATORIAL RACE, HAVE YOUR VOICE
DON'T STAY HOME.
AND WE'RE ALREADY SEEING SOME
INCREASED VOTER TURNOUT, VOTER
REGISTRATION NUMBERS ACROSS THE
THAT'S ONE BENEFIT OF HAVING A
RELATIVELY EARLY VOTER
REGISTRATION DEADLINE, YOU CAN
SEE HOW MANY PEOPLE HAVE
REGISTERED SO VOTE AND THERE
DEFINITELY SEEMS TO BE A LOT
MORE INTEREST IN VOTING IN THIS
ELECTION, WHETHER IT'S THE
PRESIDENT TRUMP FACTOR OR OTHER
THINGS, SO IT WILL BE
INTERESTING TO SEE HOW THAT
MANIFESTS AND FOR WHICH
CANDIDATE ON ELECTION DAY AS
I WOULD COUNTER TO THAT,
THOUGH, HISTORICALLY WHEN IT
COMES TO MID TERMS, OLDER PEOPLE
TEND TO SHOW UP MORE THAN YOUNG
PEOPLE.
YOUNG PEOPLE TEND TO SHOW UP FOR
THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS, BUT
NOT AS MUCH FOR THE MIDTERM.
SO FOR A COUNTRY -- A COUNTRY
AND A STATE, REALLY, OUR CYCLE
IS SO SHORT.
ERIC GREITENS, YOU REMEMBER HIM?
THAT WAS A FEW MONTHS AGO.
REMEMBER WHEN PEOPLE THOUGHT
THAT MIGHT AFFECT THIS ELECTION.
AND IT HAS NO BEARING
WHATSOEVER.
HE'S NONEXISTENT IN THIS THING.
IT'S SO INTERESTING, ONE, HOW
QUICKLY THE CYCLE TURNS, AND
TWO, IF PEOPLE YOUNG AND YOUNG
VOTERS ARE GOING TO TURN OUT.
I ALMOST SUSPECT PAR FOR THE
COURSE, THIS IS GOING TO COME
DOWN TO OLDER VOTERS.
I'M INTERESTING TO SEE IF THE
BALLOT INITIATIVES MIGHT AFFECT
THAT.
HAVING MINIMUM WAGE AND
MARIJUANA ISSUES ON THE BALLOT.
MIGHT BRING OUT YOUNGER VOTERS.
BECAUSE IT'S CLOSE ENOUGH
THAT IT MIGHT NOT TAKE MUCH?
IT SEEMS LIKE EVERY TIME
CLAIRE McCASKILL RUNS FOR
SENATE, IT IS A CLOSE ELECTION
AND I DON'T THINK THIS TIME
WOULD BE ANY DIFFERENT.
YOU MENTIONED THE MINIMUM WAGE,
A LOT OF EFFORT MOBILIZING
BEHIND THAT.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA, CLEAN
MISSOURI, ALL THOSE PEOPLE ARE
ON THE GROUND FOR THOSE RACES,
AND THAT WILL BRING PEOPLE TO
THE POLLS.
THERE WERE SOME OTHER ISSUES
THAT CAME UP THAT ARE GETTING
NATIONAL ATTENTION.
TAKE FOR INSTANCE TARIFFS.
THAT HAVE A REAL EFFECT HERE IN
MISSOURI, ON MISSOURI FARMERS
AND THAT TRICKLES THROUGHOUT THE
ECONOMY.
DO YOU SEE ISSUES LIKE THAT
BEING IMPORTANT TO VOTERS HERE
LOCALLY OR THIS IS GOING TO COME
DOWN TO SOMETHING MORE PERSONAL,
MORE OF A GUT FEELING?
I THINK TARIFFS ARE PERSONAL
FOR SOME PEOPLE, ESPECIALLY
THOSE IN THE MANUFACTURING
COMMUNITY HAVE BEEN AFFECTION BY
THAT AND FARMERS.
WE SAW A LITTLE BIT OF THAT
TENSION TONIGHT ABOUT, OKAY,
WHAT DO YOU DO WITH THIS ISSUE
BECAUSE FARMERS AND AGRICULTURE
HAVE BEEN HURT IN THIS STATE
THAT SOME SAY BECAUSE OF THE
TARIFFS.
WE HAVE THE COMPANY IN POPLAR
BLUFF THAT'S BEEN IN THE NEWS
THAT THEY WERE REDUCING THEIR
WORKFORCE BECAUSE OF THE EFFECTS
OF THE TARIFFS.
AND YOU SAW, AGAIN, CLAIRE
McCASKILL TRYING TO DRAW THE
LINE HERE.
SHE DID COMPLIMENT THE PRESIDENT
ON THE RENEGOTIATED NAFTA, THE
NEW UM -- US MCA, I BELIEVE IS
THE NEW NAME FOR NAFTA, BUT
STILL TRYING TO CRITICIZE THE
PRESIDENT, GOING AFTER THE
PRESIDENT ON THE CHINA ISSUE
BECAUSE THERE ISN'T ANY
RESOLUTION TO THAT.
WE HAVE ABOUT 30 SECONDS
LEFT.
REAL QUICKLY, DID YOU SEE A
WINNER?
DID ONE OUTSHINE THE OTHER?
I'M GOING TO GO LAST.
WHAT DECISION?
I'M GOING TO SECOND THAT.
THAT'S A SAFE BET.
YEAH, YEAH, LET'S GO WITH
THAT'S WHAT IT IS, AS IS THIS
STATE IF YOU BELIEVE THE POLL
NUMBERS.
IT WILL BE UP TO THE VOTERS
NOVEMBER 6th.
ANITA, SAMUEL, AND DIA, I'M
CASEY NOLEN FROM 5 ON YOUR SIDE.
THANKS TO ALL OF YOU FOR
STICKING AROUND ON A CHILLY BUT
EXHILARATING NIGHT TO MISSOURI
POLITICS.
THANKS FOR WATCHING AND FOR LISTENING.